# Preliminary Notes

Most of this post, and all of these statistics, were generated by a script I wrote, [available on GitHub](https://github.com/smartflutist661/rfantasy-bingo-stats),
Anyone is welcome to view the enhancments I currently have in mind, request new statistics, or contribute there.
You can find the raw data, corrected data, and some more extensive summary statistics at that link, as well.
See [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12gyb45/cleaning_2022_and_future_bingo_data/) for some technical details.

Format has been shamelessly copied from previous bingo stats posts:

  - [2022](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12xs3c1/2022_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/ude8f4/2021_rfantasy_bingo_stats/)
  - [2020](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/npvigf/2020_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2019](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/gjq0ym/2019_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/bbm35a/2018_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2016](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)

Likewise, the following notes are shamelessly adapted.

1. Stories were not examined for fitness. If you used **1984** for **Novella**, it was included in the statistics for that square.
In addition, if you did something like, say, put **The Lost Metal** as a short story, I made no effort to figure out where it actually belonged.
2. When a series was specified, it was collapsed to the first book. Graphic novels, light novels, manga, and webserials were collapsed from issues to the overall series.
3. Books by multiple authors were counted once for each author. E.g.: **In the Heart of Darkness** by Eric Flint and David Drake counts as a read for both Eric Flint and David Drake.
*However*, books by a writing team with a single-author pseudonym, e.g. M.A. Carrick, were counted once for the pseudonym, and not for the authors behind the pseudonym.
4. Author demographic statistics are not included below, for two reasons: it quickly gets messy and culturally-specific,
and I didn't want to stalk all 3948 individual authors. Machinery for these calculations are included in the script, however,
so if anyone would like to supply demographic information, it is easy to include.
5. Short stories were excluded from most of the stats below. They *were* included in the total story count.

# And Now: The Stats
    
## Overall Stats

### Squares and Cards

- There were 929 cards submitted, 84 of which were incomplete.
The minimum number of filled squares was 5. 5 were *this close*, with 24 filled squares.
649 squares were left blank, leaving 22576 filled squares.
- There were 23096 total stories, with 6700 unique stories read,
by 3948 unique authors (23679 total).
4150 books and 2134 authors were used only once. 
- The top squares left blank were: **Druid** and **Set in the Middle East**, blank on 46 cards each; **Superheroes**, blank on 44 cards; **Elemental Magic**, blank on 38 cards. On the other hand, **Sequel** was only left blank 9 times.
- The three squares most often substituted were: **Druid**, substituted on 58 cards; **Superheroes**, substituted on 34 cards; **Book Club or Readalong Book**, substituted on 31 cards.
**Multiverses** and **Sequel** were never substituted.
This means that Druid was the least favorite overall, skipped or substituted a total of 104 times, and
Sequel was the favorite, skipped or substituted only 9 times.
- There were an average of 4.5 unique books per card.
- 182 cards claimed an all-hard-mode card, while 31 cards were short by one square.
3 cards claimed no hard-mode squares at all. The average number of hard-mode squares per card was 17.0.
There were a total of 15749 hard-mode squares claimed.

|SQUARE|% COMPLETE|% HARD MODE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Title with a Title|98.7|80.2|
|Superheroes|95.1|84.0|
|Bottom of the TBR|97.2|97.2|
|Magical Realism|97.1|81.7|
|Young Adult|98.3|69.6|
|Mundane Jobs|98.5|59.5|
|Published in the 2000s|96.6|72.7|
|Angels and Demons|96.7|55.0|
|Five Short Stories|95.9|81.2|
|Horror|98.3|91.9|
|Self Published or Indie Publisher|96.3|41.3|
|Set in the Middle East|94.9|53.7|
|Published in 2023|97.7|40.1|
|Multiverses|97.7|72.3|
|POC Author|97.8|46.5|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|97.3|32.1|
|Novella|98.1|64.9|
|Mythical Beasts|98.0|62.8|
|Elemental Magic|95.8|87.1|
|Myths and Retellings|97.3|78.3|
|Queernorm Setting|97.7|66.1|
|Coastal Setting|97.7|69.2|
|Druid|94.7|84.3|
|Features Robots|96.5|61.0|
|Sequel|99.0|75.9|

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

### Books

The ten most-read books were:

- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by S.A. Chakraborty, read 209 times
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 186 times
- **Hench** by Natalie Zina Walschots, read 124 times
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, read 120 times
- **System Collapse** by Martha Wells, read 114 times
- **Untethered Sky** by Fonda Lee, read 106 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 102 times
- **The Stardust Thief** by Chelsea Abdullah, read 97 times
- **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, read 96 times
- **Small Miracles** by Olivia Atwater, read 94 times

The books used for the most squares were:

- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, used for 12 squares
- TIE: **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros and **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson and **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone and **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez and **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić, each used for 10 squares
- TIE: **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune and **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir and **Mammoths at the Gates** by Nghi Vo and **Percy Jackson and the Lightning Thief** by Rick Riordan and **Starling House** by Alix E. Harrow, each used for 9 squares

**Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić was the book read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 15 times for 10 squares.

<INSERT PLOT HERE>

One of those interesting stats phenomena: even though most cards only include a few unique books, most of the books read are unique.
There were an average of 3.4 reads per book.

### Authors

The ten most-read authors were:

- Martha Wells, read 441 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 380 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 349 times
- S.A. Chakraborty, read 277 times
- Travis Baldree, read 269 times
- Terry Pratchett, read 233 times
- Neil Gaiman, read 229 times
- Becky Chambers, read 210 times
- Naomi Novik, read 196 times
- T.J. Klune, read 191 times

The authors used for the most squares were:

- Brandon Sanderson, used for 26 squares
- T. Kingfisher, used for 22 squares
- TIE: Seanan McGuire and Adrian Tchaikovsky and Terry Pratchett, each used for 20 squares

Charlie Jane Anders was the author read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 8 squares.

The authors with the most unique books read were:

- Terry Pratchett, with 40 unique books read
- Brandon Sanderson, with 37 unique books read
- TIE: Seanan McGuire and Stephen King, each with 32 unique books read
- TIE: Mercedes Lackey and Lois McMaster Bujold, each with 26 unique books read
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, with 25 unique books read
- Ursula K. Le Guin, with 24 unique books read
- TIE: Jim Butcher and Neil Gaiman, each with 23 unique books read
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Ilona Andrews, each with 22 unique books read
- TIE: Garth Nix and Tamora Pierce, each with 20 unique books read
- Will Wight, with 19 unique books read

<INSERT_PLOT_HERE>

As with books, most authors were read only once.
There were an average of 6.0 reads per author.

The following tables represent a best-effort attempt at a statistical breakdown of author demographics.
The "Overall %" column represents the _total_ number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts 214412 times for each of his demographic groups.
The "Unique %" column represents the unique number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts only once, no matter how many squares or cards he appears on.

Demographics representing less than 1% of the unique authors are not included in these tables. 

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.9|5.9|
|Black|4.4|2.1|
|Hispanic|1.6|1.1|
|White|59.1|31.5|
|Unknown|23.8|59.0|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|0.5|1.5|
|United States|3.8|1.4|
|Unknown|93.7|96.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|32.2|21.4|
|Nonbinary|2.9|1.5|
|Woman|40.8|18.1|
|Unknown|24.1|59.0|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|13.1|5.2|
|Unknown|86.6|94.7|

### Bingos

#### Normal Mode

There were 10400 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 3.1 bingos.
There were 10 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingos by number of cards were Second Row and Third Column, incomplete on 69 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Second Row, with a total of 161 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was Fifth Row, incomplete on 52 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was Fifth Row, with a total of 87 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|55|104|
|Second Row|69|161|
|Third Row|65|142|
|Fourth Row|68|155|
|Fifth Row|52|87|
|First Column|65|125|
|Second Column|64|130|
|Third Column|69|141|
|Fourth Column|62|124|
|Fifth Column|56|129|
|Diagonal|59|112|
|Antidiagonal|64|113|

#### Hard Mode

There were 3578 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 1.9 bingos.
There were 296 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was First Row, incomplete on 715 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Third Column, with a total of 2306 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was First Column, incomplete on 469 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was First Column, with a total of 839 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|715|2051|
|Second Row|627|1486|
|Third Row|651|1529|
|Fourth Row|560|1118|
|Fifth Row|610|1292|
|First Column|469|839|
|Second Column|628|1327|
|Third Column|705|2306|
|Fourth Column|695|1627|
|Fifth Column|602|1377|
|Diagonal|652|1366|
|Antidiagonal|656|1678|

## Stats for Individual Squares

### 1. Title with a Title

#### Most Read Books

- **The Blacktongue Thief** by Christopher Buehlman, read 23 times
- **Paladin's Grace** by T. Kingfisher, read 19 times
- TIE: **The Goblin Emperor** by Katherine Addison and **The Witness for the Dead** by Katherine Addison, each read 17 times
- TIE: **Yumi and the Nightmare Painter** by Brandon Sanderson and **Assassin's Apprentice** by Robin Hobb, each read 15 times
- **The Captain** by Will Wight, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 913 books read, with 464 unique titles.
742 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
320 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 12 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- T. Kingfisher, read 35 times
- Katherine Addison, read 34 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 32 times
- Christopher Buehlman, read 25 times
- Robin Hobb, read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 924 total authors read, with 374 unique.
237 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.6|5.9|
|Black|4.0|2.7|
|Hispanic|2.1|1.9|
|White|68.6|54.0|
|Unknown|18.3|35.0|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|4.9|1.9|
|Unknown|91.1|96.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|37.9|30.5|
|Nonbinary|1.3|1.3|
|Woman|42.6|33.4|
|Unknown|18.2|34.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.7|7.5|
|Unknown|91.3|92.5|

### 2. Superheroes

#### Most Read Books

- **Hench** by Natalie Zina Walschots, read 116 times
- **Vicious** by V.E. Schwab, read 56 times
- **The Refrigerator Monologues** by Catherynne M. Valente, read 40 times
- **Starter Villain** by John Scalzi, read 33 times
- **Dreadnought** by April Daniels, read 30 times

**TOTAL**: 851 books read, with 279 unique titles.
752 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
196 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 44 times. Substituted 34 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Natalie Zina Walschots, read 116 times
- V.E. Schwab, read 64 times
- Catherynne M. Valente, read 40 times
- April Daniels, read 34 times
- John Scalzi, read 33 times

**TOTAL**: 948 total authors read, with 256 unique.
157 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.2|3.0|
|Black|3.2|2.1|
|White|60.9|25.4|
|Unknown|32.2|68.4|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|2.7|1.2|
|Unknown|96.8|97.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|27.5|20.3|
|Nonbinary|2.3|1.2|
|Woman|37.8|9.9|
|Unknown|32.4|68.7|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|28.5|5.4|
|Unknown|71.4|94.3|

### 3. Bottom of the TBR

#### Most Read Books

- **The Fellowship of the Ring** by J.R.R. Tolkien, read 10 times
- **The Left Hand of Darkness** by Ursula K. Le Guin, read 9 times
- TIE: **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin and **Neuromancer** by William Gibson, each read 7 times
- TIE: **Tigana** by Guy Gavriel Kay and **Children of Time** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke and **Dune** by Frank Herbert and **The Hobbit** by J.R.R. Tolkien, each read 6 times
- TIE: **American Gods** by Neil Gaiman and **Assassin's Apprentice** by Robin Hobb and **The Lies of Locke Lamora** by Scott Lynch and **The Ocean at the End of the Lane** by Neil Gaiman and **The Three-Body Problem** by Cixin Liu and **Kindred** by Octavia E. Butler, each read 5 times

**TOTAL**: 896 books read, with 645 unique titles.
896 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
510 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 26 times. Substituted 7 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Ursula K. Le Guin, read 25 times
- J.R.R. Tolkien, read 24 times
- Neil Gaiman, read 21 times
- TIE: Brandon Sanderson and Guy Gavriel Kay, each read 13 times
- TIE: Octavia E. Butler and Terry Pratchett, each read 12 times

**TOTAL**: 908 total authors read, with 451 unique.
298 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|4.4|6.2|
|Black|3.0|2.8|
|Hispanic|1.4|2.4|
|White|75.8|60.2|
|Unknown|15.0|27.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|2.5|1.9|
|Unknown|93.9|94.2|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|50.4|40.0|
|Nonbinary|1.2|1.7|
|Woman|33.4|30.8|
|Unknown|15.0|27.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.2|8.2|
|Unknown|93.1|91.4|

### 4. Magical Realism

#### Most Read Books

- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 45 times
- **Before the Coffee Gets Cold** by Toshikazu Kawaguchi, read 42 times
- TIE: **The Cartographers** by Peng Shepherd and **Bunny** by Mona Awad, each read 15 times
- **Remarkably Bright Creatures** by Shelby Van Pelt, read 14 times
- TIE: **Our Wives Under the Sea** by Julia Armfield and **The Ocean at the End of the Lane** by Neil Gaiman, each read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 890 books read, with 436 unique titles.
749 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
303 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 27 times. Substituted 12 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Susanna Clarke, read 48 times
- Toshikazu Kawaguchi, read 47 times
- Mona Awad, read 20 times
- Neil Gaiman, read 16 times
- Peng Shepherd, read 15 times

**TOTAL**: 899 total authors read, with 354 unique.
227 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|19.2|9.9|
|Black|4.3|5.0|
|Hispanic|6.5|4.4|
|Native|0.8|1.1|
|White|40.8|31.2|
|Unknown|28.4|48.3|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|1.6|1.4|
|Unknown|96.1|96.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|26.7|18.5|
|Nonbinary|1.9|1.9|
|Woman|43.0|31.2|
|Unknown|28.4|48.3|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.6|5.8|
|Unknown|93.2|93.9|

### 5. Young Adult

#### Most Read Books

- **A Deadly Education** by Naomi Novik, read 27 times
- **A Wizard's Guide to Defensive Baking** by T. Kingfisher, read 20 times
- **The Girl Who Fell Beneath the Sea** by Axie Oh, read 15 times
- TIE: **The Ballad of Songbirds and Snakes** by Suzanne Collins and **Fireborne** by Rosaria Munda, each read 11 times
- TIE: **Divine Rivals** by Rebecca Ross and **Iron Widow** by Xiran Jay Zhao, each read 10 times

**TOTAL**: 909 books read, with 513 unique titles.
644 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
376 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 16 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Naomi Novik, read 41 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 24 times
- Leigh Bardugo, read 17 times
- Garth Nix, read 16 times
- TIE: Axie Oh and Suzanne Collins, each read 15 times

**TOTAL**: 924 total authors read, with 370 unique.
234 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|5.7|7.2|
|Black|4.5|4.2|
|Hispanic|2.9|3.2|
|Native|2.3|1.1|
|White|60.8|44.8|
|Unknown|23.7|39.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.7|2.9|
|Unknown|91.5|95.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|18.7|18.3|
|Nonbinary|5.0|3.2|
|Woman|52.6|39.0|
|Unknown|23.7|39.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|12.3|8.8|
|Unknown|87.1|90.7|

### 6. Mundane Jobs

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 107 times
- **A Wizard's Guide to Defensive Baking** by T. Kingfisher, read 36 times
- **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree, read 16 times
- TIE: **Going Postal** by Terry Pratchett and **Elder Race** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune, each read 15 times
- TIE: **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **Divine Rivals** by Rebecca Ross, each read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 914 books read, with 410 unique titles.
552 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
286 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 14 times. Substituted 1 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 123 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 47 times
- Terry Pratchett, read 30 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 28 times
- Becky Chambers, read 18 times

**TOTAL**: 926 total authors read, with 343 unique.
232 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.9|4.9|
|Black|1.4|2.6|
|Hispanic|0.4|1.2|
|White|74.0|52.9|
|Unknown|20.0|37.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|2.2|2.3|
|Unknown|96.0|95.3|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|48.1|31.7|
|Nonbinary|2.5|2.9|
|Woman|29.2|27.6|
|Unknown|20.3|37.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|25.3|9.9|
|Unknown|74.4|89.8|

### 7. Published in the 2000s

#### Most Read Books

- **His Majesty's Dragon** by Naomi Novik, read 20 times
- **The Curse of Chalion** by Lois McMaster Bujold, read 16 times
- **The Blade Itself** by Joe Abercrombie, read 15 times
- **Kushiel's Dart** by Jacqueline Carey, read 14 times
- **Vita Nostra** by Marina Dyachenko, Sergey Dyachenko, read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 884 books read, with 478 unique titles.
666 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
331 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 31 times. Substituted 13 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Neil Gaiman, read 34 times
- Lois McMaster Bujold, read 27 times
- TIE: Joe Abercrombie and Terry Pratchett, each read 25 times
- TIE: Naomi Novik and China Miéville, each read 24 times
- Jim Butcher, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 914 total authors read, with 316 unique.
181 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.6|4.3|
|Black|1.5|1.2|
|Hispanic|0.7|1.2|
|White|76.9|51.9|
|Unknown|17.1|40.9|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United Kingdom|3.2|1.2|
|United States|6.6|1.7|
|Unknown|89.2|95.7|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|44.0|29.9|
|Woman|38.3|29.3|
|Unknown|17.7|40.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|3.1|3.2|
|Unknown|95.4|96.2|

### 8. Angels and Demons

#### Most Read Books

- **Good Omens** by Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett, read 87 times
- **Small Miracles** by Olivia Atwater, read 84 times
- **Witch King** by Martha Wells, read 40 times
- **When the Angels Left the Old Country** by Sacha Lamb, read 34 times
- **Hell Bent** by Leigh Bardugo, read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 893 books read, with 324 unique titles.
508 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
219 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 30 times. Substituted 6 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Neil Gaiman, read 93 times
- Terry Pratchett, read 87 times
- Olivia Atwater, read 84 times
- Martha Wells, read 41 times
- Sacha Lamb, read 34 times

**TOTAL**: 989 total authors read, with 251 unique.
145 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|4.2|3.2|
|Black|2.8|1.9|
|White|70.4|68.9|
|Unknown|21.2|25.3|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Unknown|98.7|98.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|38.1|58.9|
|Nonbinary|2.1|1.2|
|Woman|38.4|14.4|
|Unknown|21.3|25.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.5|4.4|
|Unknown|93.4|95.4|

### 9. Five Short Stories

#### Most Read Books

- **Exhalation** by Ted Chiang, read 34 times
- **Stories of Your Life and Others** by Ted Chiang, read 27 times
- **The Paper Menagerie and Other Stories** by Ken Liu, read 17 times
- **Sharp Ends** by Joe Abercrombie, read 10 times
- TIE: **Her Body and Other Parties** by Carmen Maria Machado and **How Long 'til Black Future Month?** by N.K. Jemisin, each read 8 times

**TOTAL**: 746 books read, with 437 unique titles.
740 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
330 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 37 times. Substituted 18 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Ted Chiang, read 61 times
- Ken Liu, read 30 times
- TIE: Ursula K. Le Guin and Neil Gaiman, each read 12 times
- TIE: Jonathan Strahan and Isaac Asimov and Kelly Link, each read 11 times
- Joe Abercrombie, read 10 times

**TOTAL**: 1241 total authors read, with 637 unique.
428 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|12.2|4.1|
|Black|5.2|5.0|
|Hispanic|1.8|1.1|
|White|40.4|37.3|
|Unknown|39.6|51.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|3.1|2.6|
|Unknown|94.4|96.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|30.2|21.2|
|Nonbinary|1.2|1.2|
|Woman|28.1|24.9|
|Unknown|40.5|52.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.0|7.7|
|Unknown|91.8|92.2|

### 10. Horror

#### Most Read Books

- **What Moves the Dead** by T. Kingfisher, read 34 times
- **A House with Good Bones** by T. Kingfisher, read 28 times
- **Dracula** by Bram Stoker, read 21 times
- TIE: **Lone Women** by Victor LaValle and **The Haunting of Hill House** by Shirley Jackson, each read 17 times
- TIE: **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher and **The Library at Mount Char** by Scott Hawkins, each read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 901 books read, with 394 unique titles.
844 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
269 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 16 times. Substituted 11 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- T. Kingfisher, read 96 times
- Grady Hendrix, read 34 times
- Victor LaValle, read 24 times
- Shirley Jackson, read 23 times
- Bram Stoker, read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 920 total authors read, with 304 unique.
179 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.9|5.4|
|Black|5.2|3.5|
|Hispanic|3.9|2.2|
|White|62.8|43.3|
|Unknown|23.0|44.9|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|1.5|2.6|
|Unknown|97.4|96.2|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|37.5|29.5|
|Nonbinary|2.8|2.6|
|Woman|36.5|22.8|
|Unknown|23.2|45.2|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|9.9|9.0|
|Unknown|90.0|90.7|

### 11. Self Published or Indie Publisher

#### Most Read Books

- **Murder at Spindle Manor** by Morgan Stang, read 17 times
- **Blood Over Bright Haven** by M.L. Wang, read 16 times
- **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang, read 13 times
- TIE: **Orconomics** by J. Zachary Pike and **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, each read 11 times
- TIE: **The Midnight Bargain** by C.L. Polk and **Unsouled** by Will Wight and **Small Miracles** by Olivia Atwater and **Waybound** by Will Wight and **Miss Percy's Pocket Guide to the Care and Feeding of British Dragons** by Quenby Olson, each read 8 times

**TOTAL**: 871 books read, with 608 unique titles.
373 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
507 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 33 times. Substituted 25 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- M.L. Wang, read 30 times
- Will Wight, read 27 times
- Morgan Stang, read 24 times
- Matt Dinniman, read 16 times
- J. Zachary Pike, read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 924 total authors read, with 543 unique.
427 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.7|3.6|
|White|46.1|32.1|
|Unknown|45.5|62.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Unknown|97.6|98.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|26.2|16.4|
|Nonbinary|2.3|2.2|
|Woman|25.6|18.6|
|Unknown|45.9|62.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.5|6.9|
|Unknown|93.5|93.1|

### 12. Set in the Middle East

#### Most Read Books

- **The Stardust Thief** by Chelsea Abdullah, read 92 times
- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by S.A. Chakraborty, read 87 times
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 44 times
- **The City of Brass** by S.A. Chakraborty, read 41 times
- **The Daughters of Izdihar** by Hadeer Elsbai, read 37 times

**TOTAL**: 853 books read, with 164 unique titles.
483 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
94 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 46 times. Substituted 30 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- S.A. Chakraborty, read 135 times
- Chelsea Abdullah, read 92 times
- P. Djèlí Clark, read 62 times
- Zamil Akhtar, read 42 times
- Hadeer Elsbai, read 38 times

**TOTAL**: 891 total authors read, with 143 unique.
71 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Arabic|12.7|2.7|
|Asian|21.2|12.4|
|Black|8.3|2.2|
|White|29.2|22.0|
|Unknown|28.2|60.2|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|10.5|1.6|
|Unknown|87.1|96.2|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|26.9|18.8|
|Nonbinary|2.5|2.7|
|Woman|42.3|17.7|
|Unknown|28.3|60.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|4.4|4.8|
|Unknown|95.6|95.2|

### 13. Published in 2023

#### Most Read Books

- **Godkiller** by Hannah Kaner, read 29 times
- **Ink Blood Sister Scribe** by Emma Törzs, read 27 times
- **The Will of the Many** by James Islington, read 26 times
- **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros, read 25 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 905 books read, with 341 unique titles.
371 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
206 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 21 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Brandon Sanderson, read 48 times
- Hannah Kaner, read 29 times
- Rebecca Yarros, read 28 times
- Emma Törzs, read 27 times
- James Islington, read 26 times

**TOTAL**: 919 total authors read, with 337 unique.
208 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|5.1|5.9|
|Black|2.1|1.5|
|Hispanic|0.5|1.2|
|White|41.2|36.1|
|Unknown|49.8|55.0|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|8.2|2.7|
|Unknown|90.4|95.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|27.5|20.1|
|Nonbinary|1.4|2.4|
|Woman|20.7|21.9|
|Unknown|50.4|55.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|7.4|7.7|
|Unknown|92.2|92.0|

### 14. Multiverses

#### Most Read Books

- **The Space Between Worlds** by Micaiah Johnson, read 51 times
- **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi, read 45 times
- **The Frugal Wizard's Handbook for Surviving Medieval England** by Brandon Sanderson, read 40 times
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 31 times
- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 30 times

**TOTAL**: 908 books read, with 378 unique titles.
672 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
270 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 21 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Micaiah Johnson, read 51 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 50 times
- John Scalzi, read 47 times
- Max Gladstone, read 34 times
- Susanna Clarke, read 33 times

**TOTAL**: 948 total authors read, with 280 unique.
186 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.8|12.8|
|Black|0.9|1.4|
|Hispanic|5.8|1.4|
|White|69.5|52.5|
|Unknown|15.8|31.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|3.5|9.3|
|Unknown|90.4|88.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|46.6|36.8|
|Nonbinary|1.7|1.4|
|Woman|35.5|29.6|
|Unknown|16.1|32.2|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|7.3|4.6|
|Unknown|92.7|95.4|

### 15. POC Author

#### Most Read Books

- **Dawn** by Octavia E. Butler, read 31 times
- **Iron Widow** by Xiran Jay Zhao, read 25 times
- **An Unkindness of Ghosts** by Rivers Solomon, read 21 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 17 times
- **Parable of the Sower** by Octavia E. Butler, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 906 books read, with 385 unique titles.
431 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
247 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 20 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Octavia E. Butler, read 78 times
- Nnedi Okorafor, read 41 times
- N.K. Jemisin, read 37 times
- Yoon Ha Lee, read 28 times
- Fonda Lee, read 27 times

**TOTAL**: 945 total authors read, with 288 unique.
176 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|32.8|22.4|
|Black|36.8|18.4|
|Hispanic|4.1|3.9|
|Native|1.9|2.0|
|White|2.6|4.9|
|Unknown|21.6|48.0|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|3.1|1.6|
|United States|3.2|2.6|
|Unknown|92.0|93.8|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|21.8|19.1|
|Nonbinary|9.5|5.3|
|Woman|47.0|27.3|
|Unknown|21.7|48.4|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|19.9|11.2|
|Unknown|78.9|88.5|

### 16. Book Club or Readalong Book

#### Most Read Books

- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 32 times
- **Orconomics** by J. Zachary Pike, read 31 times
- **The Ninth Rain** by Jen Williams, read 25 times
- TIE: **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by S.A. Chakraborty and **The Justice of Kings** by Richard Swan, each read 24 times
- **Ink Blood Sister Scribe** by Emma Törzs, read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 874 books read, with 266 unique titles.
288 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
131 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 24 times. Substituted 31 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Heather Fawcett, read 32 times
- J. Zachary Pike, read 31 times
- TIE: S.A. Chakraborty and Jen Williams, each read 25 times
- Richard Swan, read 24 times
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Emma Törzs, each read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 890 total authors read, with 229 unique.
95 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.9|13.0|
|Black|3.3|3.2|
|Hispanic|1.1|1.2|
|White|66.7|60.7|
|Unknown|18.8|21.1|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|0.4|1.6|
|United Kingdom|1.1|1.2|
|United States|1.5|2.0|
|Unknown|94.6|93.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|33.3|32.0|
|Nonbinary|3.7|6.9|
|Woman|43.4|39.7|
|Unknown|19.7|21.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|16.2|17.4|
|Unknown|83.8|82.6|

### 17. Novella

#### Most Read Books

- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 30 times
- **To Be Taught, If Fortunate** by Becky Chambers, read 28 times
- **The Empress of Salt and Fortune** by Nghi Vo, read 24 times
- TIE: **Ogres** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Rose/House** by Arkady Martine, each read 18 times
- TIE: **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Penric's Demon** by Lois McMaster Bujold and **The Deep** by Rivers Solomon, each read 17 times

**TOTAL**: 909 books read, with 409 unique titles.
602 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
281 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 18 times. Substituted 2 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 53 times
- Becky Chambers, read 52 times
- Nghi Vo, read 39 times
- TIE: Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone, each read 30 times
- Lois McMaster Bujold, read 27 times

**TOTAL**: 945 total authors read, with 307 unique.
202 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|16.5|13.8|
|Black|5.6|3.0|
|Hispanic|0.7|1.6|
|White|59.7|48.2|
|Unknown|16.9|32.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|3.2|8.1|
|United States|6.1|1.6|
|Unknown|87.9|88.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|28.8|29.0|
|Nonbinary|6.7|3.5|
|Woman|46.8|34.4|
|Unknown|17.8|33.1|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|26.6|10.0|
|Unknown|73.4|90.0|

### 18. Mythical Beasts

#### Most Read Books

- **Untethered Sky** by Fonda Lee, read 79 times
- **The Last Unicorn** by Peter S. Beagle, read 58 times
- **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros, read 34 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 18 times
- TIE: **All the Murmuring Bones** by A.G. Slatter and **A Natural History of Dragons** by Marie Brennan and **The Forgotten Beasts of Eld** by Patricia A. McKillip, each read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 908 books read, with 451 unique titles.
582 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
336 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 19 times. Substituted 2 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Fonda Lee, read 79 times
- Peter S. Beagle, read 64 times
- Rebecca Yarros, read 36 times
- Marie Brennan, read 24 times
- Heather Fawcett, read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 922 total authors read, with 336 unique.
216 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|13.0|6.6|
|Black|2.3|3.2|
|Hispanic|0.8|1.7|
|White|61.4|53.7|
|Unknown|21.4|33.9|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|3.3|3.2|
|Unknown|93.4|94.5|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|30.8|30.5|
|Nonbinary|2.6|3.4|
|Woman|43.9|32.2|
|Unknown|22.7|33.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|10.7|10.1|
|Unknown|88.6|89.4|

### 19. Elemental Magic

#### Most Read Books

- **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang, read 64 times
- **Avatar: The Rise of Kyoshi** by F.C. Yee, Michael Dante DiMartino, read 43 times
- **The Daughters of Izdihar** by Hadeer Elsbai, read 32 times
- TIE: **A River Enchanted** by Rebecca Ross and **The Fifth Season** by N.K. Jemisin, each read 16 times
- TIE: **Daughter of the Moon Goddess** by Sue Lynn Tan and **A Darker Shade of Magic** by V.E. Schwab, each read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 869 books read, with 360 unique titles.
792 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
236 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 38 times. Substituted 20 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- M.L. Wang, read 64 times
- F.C. Yee, read 59 times
- Michael Dante DiMartino, read 45 times
- Hadeer Elsbai, read 32 times
- Robert Jordan, read 26 times

**TOTAL**: 926 total authors read, with 259 unique.
152 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|19.7|18.0|
|Black|4.6|2.5|
|Hispanic|1.4|1.4|
|White|45.9|34.3|
|Unknown|28.4|43.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|0.9|1.4|
|Unknown|98.5|97.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|22.6|28.8|
|Nonbinary|1.4|1.9|
|Woman|47.6|25.5|
|Unknown|28.4|43.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|5.6|6.9|
|Unknown|94.4|93.1|

### 20. Myths and Retellings

#### Most Read Books

- **Spinning Silver** by Naomi Novik, read 43 times
- **The Witch's Heart** by Genevieve Gornichec, read 31 times
- **Circe** by Madeline Miller, read 29 times
- **Kaikeyi** by Vaishnavi Patel, read 22 times
- TIE: **Thornhedge** by T. Kingfisher and **What Moves the Dead** by T. Kingfisher, each read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 900 books read, with 389 unique titles.
724 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
267 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 25 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- T. Kingfisher, read 57 times
- Naomi Novik, read 49 times
- Madeline Miller, read 47 times
- Genevieve Gornichec, read 32 times
- Vaishnavi Patel, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 929 total authors read, with 325 unique.
215 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.8|8.1|
|Black|1.9|2.4|
|Hispanic|1.4|1.8|
|White|62.4|43.9|
|Unknown|23.9|43.3|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|1.5|1.8|
|Unknown|97.6|97.3|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|14.4|16.1|
|Nonbinary|2.7|2.4|
|Woman|59.0|38.2|
|Unknown|23.9|43.3|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|14.6|9.9|
|Unknown|85.4|90.1|

### 21. Queernorm Setting

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 45 times
- **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree, read 44 times
- **Gideon the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir, read 22 times
- **Saint Death's Daughter** by C.S.E. Cooney, read 21 times
- TIE: **A Taste of Gold and Iron** by Alexandra Rowland and **Godkiller** by Hannah Kaner and **A Day of Fallen Night** by Samantha Shannon, each read 15 times

**TOTAL**: 896 books read, with 339 unique titles.
606 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
208 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 21 times. Substituted 12 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 89 times
- Becky Chambers, read 38 times
- TIE: Tamsyn Muir and Nghi Vo and T.J. Klune, each read 32 times
- M.A. Carrick, read 29 times
- TIE: Martha Wells and Samantha Shannon, each read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 906 total authors read, with 234 unique.
136 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.9|6.3|
|Black|1.5|3.4|
|Hispanic|0.9|1.3|
|White|73.0|54.6|
|Unknown|15.7|33.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|4.6|1.7|
|Unknown|91.2|96.2|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|23.6|15.1|
|Nonbinary|10.9|8.4|
|Woman|49.8|42.9|
|Unknown|15.7|33.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|48.0|23.5|
|Unknown|52.0|76.5|

### 22. Coastal Setting

#### Most Read Books

- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by S.A. Chakraborty, read 83 times
- **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, read 62 times
- **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin, read 39 times
- **The Bone Ships** by R.J. Barker, read 23 times
- **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune, read 18 times

**TOTAL**: 907 books read, with 378 unique titles.
642 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
268 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 21 times. Substituted 1 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- S.A. Chakraborty, read 83 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 65 times
- Ursula K. Le Guin, read 48 times
- R.J. Barker, read 39 times
- Andrea Stewart, read 34 times

**TOTAL**: 925 total authors read, with 326 unique.
221 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.3|5.5|
|Black|2.2|4.0|
|Native|1.1|1.2|
|White|70.9|53.1|
|Unknown|16.4|35.9|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|8.1|1.5|
|Unknown|89.5|96.3|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|36.5|31.6|
|Nonbinary|1.6|2.1|
|Woman|45.4|30.4|
|Unknown|16.4|35.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.9|9.8|
|Unknown|91.1|90.2|

### 23. Druid

#### Most Read Books

- **Dreamer's Pool** by Juliet Marillier, read 56 times
- **Silver in the Wood** by Emily Tesh, read 43 times
- **The Jasmine Throne** by Tasha Suri, read 39 times
- **Hounded** by Kevin Hearne, read 38 times
- **The Druid's Call** by E.K. Johnston, read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 825 books read, with 291 unique titles.
734 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
203 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 46 times. Substituted 58 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Juliet Marillier, read 85 times
- Tasha Suri, read 56 times
- Kevin Hearne, read 50 times
- Emily Tesh, read 49 times
- E.K. Johnston, read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 859 total authors read, with 246 unique.
161 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.3|3.1|
|Black|2.9|1.5|
|Hispanic|0.8|1.5|
|White|61.8|41.3|
|Unknown|27.0|52.1|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Denmark|0.3|1.2|
|United States|0.6|1.5|
|Unknown|98.7|96.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|21.9|17.8|
|Nonbinary|0.7|1.5|
|Woman|50.3|29.3|
|Unknown|27.1|51.4|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.4|6.2|
|Unknown|91.6|93.8|

### 24. Features Robots

#### Most Read Books

- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, read 103 times
- **System Collapse** by Martha Wells, read 90 times
- **In the Lives of Puppets** by T.J. Klune, read 49 times
- **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers, read 42 times
- **Klara and the Sun** by Kazuo Ishiguro, read 33 times

**TOTAL**: 893 books read, with 236 unique titles.
564 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
160 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 32 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Martha Wells, read 284 times
- Becky Chambers, read 83 times
- T.J. Klune, read 49 times
- C. Robert Cargill, read 44 times
- Kazuo Ishiguro, read 33 times

**TOTAL**: 904 total authors read, with 193 unique.
119 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.0|6.5|
|Black|0.9|2.5|
|Hispanic|1.0|1.5|
|White|78.7|45.8|
|Unknown|13.5|43.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|1.1|2.0|
|Unknown|98.0|96.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|33.8|35.8|
|Nonbinary|3.9|1.5|
|Woman|48.8|18.9|
|Unknown|13.5|43.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|20.5|7.0|
|Unknown|79.3|92.0|

### 25. Sequel

#### Most Read Books

- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 19 times
- TIE: **Waybound** by Will Wight and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir, each read 13 times
- TIE: **Light Bringer** by Pierce Brown and **System Collapse** by Martha Wells, each read 11 times
- TIE: **Labyrinth's Heart** by M.A. Carrick and **Jade Legacy** by Fonda Lee and **A Power Unbound** by Freya Marske, each read 10 times
- **Children of Memory** by Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 9 times

**TOTAL**: 920 books read, with 580 unique titles.
705 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
441 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 9 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- James S.A. Corey, read 32 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 26 times
- Naomi Novik, read 24 times
- Martha Wells, read 23 times
- Pierce Brown, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 936 total authors read, with 346 unique.
214 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described above:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.2|6.4|
|Black|1.3|1.7|
|Hispanic|1.2|1.1|
|White|81.6|68.1|
|Unknown|9.1|21.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.2|3.9|
|Unknown|89.7|93.8|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|47.9|37.3|
|Nonbinary|2.1|2.5|
|Woman|40.3|38.1|
|Unknown|9.7|22.1|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|11.0|7.3|
|Unknown|88.7|92.4|

## Substitutions

Out of 929 cards, 305 used the Substitution rule.

### Books

- **Ninth House** by Leigh Bardugo, read 4 times
- TIE: **Rivers of London** by Ben Aaronovitch and **Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell** by Susanna Clarke and **Sea of Tranquility** by Emily St. John Mandel and **The Book That Wouldn't Burn** by Mark Lawrence and **Ink Blood Sister Scribe** by Emma Törzs and **Ancillary Justice** by Ann Leckie, each read 3 times
- TIE: **Hummingbird Salamander** by Jeff VanderMeer and **Babel** by R.F. Kuang and **The Gilded Wolves** by Roshani Chokshi and **A Marvellous Light** by Freya Marske and **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher and **Lord of Light** by Roger Zelazny and **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree and **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez and **The Werewolf of Whitechapel** by Suzannah Rowntree and **Children of Time** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros and **Three Parts Dead** by Max Gladstone and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Ice Planet Barbarians** by Ruby Dixon and **The Will of the Many** by James Islington and **A Dowry of Blood** by S.T. Gibson and **Children of Memory** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Mistborn** by Brandon Sanderson and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman and **The Butcher of the Forest** by Premee Mohamed and **Translation State** by Ann Leckie and **Red Rising** by Pierce Brown, each read 2 times

### Authors

- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 6 times
- TIE: Brandon Sanderson and Leigh Bardugo and Ann Leckie, each read 5 times
- TIE: Ben Aaronovitch and Roger Zelazny and Travis Baldree and Max Gladstone, each read 4 times

### Squares

**Set in Space 2022** and **Standalone 2022**, substituted on 9 cards each; **Historical SFF 2022**, substituted on 8 cards; **Mystery Plot 2021** and **Urban Fantasy 2022**, substituted on 7 cards each.

## Variety

The FarraGini index, [introduced in 2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/) (see Part III),
attempts to measure the variety of books and authors read for each square.
Each entity's "income" for a square is the number of times it was used for that square,
so the index is analogous to its namesake, the [Gini index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gini_coefficient):

Values close to 0 suggest a square was well-varied; 0 means no book was repeated for a square.
Values close to 100 suggest the same books were used repeatedly for a square; 100 means only one book was used for a square.

|SQUARE|BOOK|AUTHOR|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Title with a Title|41.3|49.6|
|Superheroes|60.6|63.3|
|Bottom of the TBR|24.1|41.3|
|Magical Realism|44.0|50.8|
|Young Adult|37.5|49.5|
|Mundane Jobs|48.4|55.2|
|Published in the 2000s|38.6|53.1|
|Angels and Demons|57.3|65.0|
|Five Short Stories|36.1|40.4|
|Horror|47.6|55.8|
|Self Published or Indie Publisher|27.6|37.1|
|Set in the Middle East|69.8|71.8|
|Published in 2023|50.9|52.8|
|Multiverses|52.4|62.0|
|POC Author|47.6|59.3|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|53.4|53.8|
|Novella|47.3|58.8|
|Mythical Beasts|45.3|54.6|
|Elemental Magic|50.2|60.4|
|Myths and Retellings|49.0|55.8|
|Queernorm Setting|51.2|62.2|
|Coastal Setting|52.1|57.5|
|Druid|57.2|62.7|
|Features Robots|66.4|72.1|
|Sequel|32.0|52.2|

The squares with the most variety in books:
- **Bottom of the TBR**
- **Self Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Sequel**

The squares with the most variety in authors:
- **Self Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Five Short Stories**
- **Bottom of the TBR**

The squares with the least variety in books:
- **Set in the Middle East**
- **Features Robots**
- **Superheroes**

The squares with the least variety in authors:
- **Features Robots**
- **Set in the Middle East**
- **Angels and Demons**

<INSERT COMMENTARY HERE>

## Year Over Year Changes

New this year: year-over-year statistics! For numbers from before 2022, I have scavenged from previous stats and data posts.

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

## Wall of Shame

Quoting the [very first bingo stats post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/),

> You are all terrible spellers.

A "misspelling" for the purposes of these statistics is any book (title/author combination)
that does not match the version used as the canonical version during cleaning.
There were a total of 5857 misspellings.
(Note that this does not include short stories.)

The books with the most variation in title or author spellings were:

- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, with 40 variations
- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by S.A. Chakraborty, with 39 variations
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, with 23 variations
- **Good Omens** by Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett, with 21 variations
- **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin, with 19 variations
- TIE: **The Frugal Wizard's Handbook for Surviving Medieval England** by Brandon Sanderson and **Avatar: The Rise of Kyoshi** by F.C. Yee, Michael Dante DiMartino, with 18 variations each
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, with 17 variations
- TIE: **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers, with 16 variations each
- **One Piece** by Eiichiro Oda, with 15 variations
- TIE: **The Druid's Call** by E.K. Johnston and **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark and **Lore Olympus** by Rachel Smythe and **Silver in the Wood** by Emily Tesh, with 13 variations each

What makes a book hard to "spell" correctly?

- Length
- Lots of articles or prepositions
- Non-ASCII characters
- Lots of authors
- Numbers
- Somewhat obviously, books that were published under multiple titles

Predictably, there's a lot of crossover between books with the most variations and the most-read books overall.
