# Preliminary Notes

Most of this post, and all of these statistics, were generated by a script I wrote, [available on GitHub](https://github.com/smartflutist661/rfantasy-bingo-stats),
Anyone is welcome to view the enhancments I currently have in mind, request new statistics, or contribute there.
You can find the raw data, corrected data, and some more extensive summary statistics at that link, as well.
See [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12gyb45/cleaning_2022_and_future_bingo_data/) for some technical details.

Format has been shamelessly copied from previous bingo stats posts:
  - [2023](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/1cd0kdk/statistics_for_the_2023_rfantasy_bingo/)
  - [2022](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12xs3c1/2022_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/ude8f4/2021_rfantasy_bingo_stats/)
  - [2020](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/npvigf/2020_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2019](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/gjq0ym/2019_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/bbm35a/2018_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2016](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)

Likewise, the following notes are shamelessly adapted.

1. Stories were not examined for fitness. If you used **1984** for **Novella**, it was included in the statistics for that square.
In addition, if you did something like, say, put **The Lost Metal** as a short story, I made no effort to figure out where it actually belonged.
2. When a series was specified, it was collapsed to the first book. Graphic novels, light novels, manga, and webserials were collapsed from issues to the overall series.
3. Books by multiple authors were counted once for each author.
E.g.: **In the Heart of Darkness** by Eric Flint and David Drake counts as a read for both Eric Flint and David Drake.
*However*, books by a writing team with a single-author pseudonym, e.g. M.A. Carrick, were counted once for the pseudonym, and not for the authors behind the pseudonym.
4. Author demographic statistics are now included below. However, researching all 4882 individual authors
is quite an undertaking, and there is still a reasonable amount of information missing, especially regarding Nationality.
By the time next year's stats roll around I hope to have it reasonably complete.
5. Short stories were excluded from most of the stats below. They *were* included in the total story count.

# And Now: The Stats
    
## Overall Stats

### Squares and Cards

- There were 1353 cards submitted, 140 of which were incomplete.
The minimum number of filled squares was 4. 25 were *this close*, with 24 filled squares.
1073 squares were left blank, leaving 32752 filled squares.
- There were 33444 total stories, with 8487 unique stories read,
by 4882 unique authors (33885 total).
5238 books and 2596 authors were used only once. 
- The top squares left blank were: **Published in the 1990s**, blank on 65 cards; **Bards** and **Five SFF Short Stories** and **Dark Academia**, blank on 63 cards each; **Space Opera**, blank on 61 cards. On the other hand, **First in a Series** was only left blank 11 times.
- The three squares most often substituted were: **Book Club or Readalong Book** and **Bards**, substituted on 64 cards each; **Dark Academia**, substituted on 42 cards; **Self-Published or Indie Publisher**, substituted on 40 cards.
**Multi-POV**, **Alliterative Title**, and **Survival** were never substituted.
This means that Bards was the least favorite overall, skipped or substituted a total of 127 times, and
First in a Series was the favorite, skipped or substituted only 14 times.
- There were an average of 3.9 unique books per card.
- 263 cards claimed an all-hard-mode card, while 45 cards were short by one square.
44 cards claimed no hard-mode squares at all. The average number of hard-mode squares per card was 14.6.
There were a total of 19714 hard-mode squares claimed.

|SQUARE|% COMPLETE|% HARD MODE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First in a Series|99.2|66.5|
|Alliterative Title|98.2|46.3|
|Under the Surface|97.6|66.3|
|Criminals|97.9|54.2|
|Dreams|98.1|44.1|
|Entitled Animals|96.6|57.0|
|Bards|95.1|52.5|
|Prologues and Epilogues|97.3|61.8|
|Self-Published or Indie Publisher|95.4|40.8|
|Romantasy|97.3|52.0|
|Dark Academia|95.2|44.4|
|Multi-POV|97.7|66.1|
|Published in 2024|97.7|43.2|
|Character with a Disability|97.3|81.0|
|Published in the 1990s|95.1|58.2|
|Orcs, Trolls, and Goblins - Oh My!|95.7|61.6|
|Space Opera|95.4|59.8|
|Author of Color|96.5|45.4|
|Survival|97.5|80.5|
|Judge a Book by Its Cover|97.2|59.4|
|Set in a Small Town|97.5|70.0|
|Five SFF Short Stories|95.2|76.3|
|Eldritch Creatures|97.1|80.2|
|Reference Materials|96.7|62.7|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|95.4|31.2|

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

### Books

The ten most-read books were:

- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 262 times
- **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, read 229 times
- **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree, read 191 times
- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by Shannon Chakraborty, read 179 times
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 174 times
- **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, read 155 times
- **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, read 148 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 143 times
- **A River Enchanted** by Rebecca Ross, read 142 times
- **Wind and Truth** by Brandon Sanderson, read 137 times

The books used for the most squares were:

- **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, used for 15 squares
- TIE: **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett and **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke and **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, each used for 14 squares
- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, used for 13 squares

**Thousand Autumns** by Meng Xi Shi was the book read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 11 times for 8 squares.

<INSERT PLOT HERE>

One of those interesting stats phenomena: even though most cards only include a few unique books, most of the books read are unique.
There were an average of 3.8 reads per book.

### Authors

The ten most-read authors were:

- T. Kingfisher, read 447 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 445 times
- Travis Baldree, read 370 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 351 times
- Leigh Bardugo, read 341 times
- Matt Dinniman, read 320 times
- TIE: Naomi Novik and Terry Pratchett, each read 274 times
- Martha Wells, read 257 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 229 times
- Heather Fawcett, read 210 times

The authors used for the most squares were:

- Brandon Sanderson, used for 27 squares
- T. Kingfisher, used for 26 squares
- Martha Wells, used for 24 squares

Helen Scheuerer was the author read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 9 squares.

The authors with the most unique books read were:

- Terry Pratchett, with 46 unique books read
- TIE: Brandon Sanderson and Stephen King, each with 43 unique books read
- Seanan McGuire, with 31 unique books read
- Lois McMaster Bujold, with 30 unique books read
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Adrian Tchaikovsky, each with 27 unique books read
- Neil Gaiman, with 23 unique books read
- TIE: Martha Wells and Ursula K. Le Guin, each with 22 unique books read
- Jim Butcher, with 21 unique books read
- TIE: Ilona Andrews and Will Wight and Michael J. Sullivan, each with 19 unique books read
- TIE: Tamora Pierce and Mercedes Lackey and Robin Hobb and Rick Riordan, each with 18 unique books read

<INSERT_PLOT_HERE>

As with books, most authors were read only once.
There were an average of 6.9 reads per author.

The following tables represent a best-effort attempt at a statistical breakdown of author demographics.
The "Overall %" column represents the _total_ number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts 476722 times for each of his demographic groups.
The "Unique %" column represents the unique number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts only once, no matter how many squares or cards he appears on.

Demographics representing less than 1% of the unique authors are not included in these tables. 

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.3|4.5|
|Black|3.8|1.7|
|Hispanic|1.0|1.0|
|White|54.6|25.1|
|Unknown|32.3|67.2|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|0.7|1.3|
|United States|6.9|2.5|
|Unknown|90.1|95.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|29.9|15.8|
|Nonbinary|2.4|1.4|
|Woman|35.1|15.4|
|Unknown|32.5|67.4|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|11.2|4.2|
|Unknown|88.5|95.6|

### Bingos

#### Normal Mode

There were 15093 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 3.8 bingos.
There were 11 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was Second Row, incomplete on 108 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Second Row, with a total of 245 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was First Column, incomplete on 63 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was First Column, with a total of 122 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|97|212|
|Second Row|108|245|
|Third Row|83|187|
|Fourth Row|93|203|
|Fifth Row|99|226|
|First Column|63|122|
|Second Column|91|243|
|Third Column|103|230|
|Fourth Column|105|237|
|Fifth Column|101|241|
|Diagonal|99|199|
|Antidiagonal|101|212|

#### Hard Mode

There were 4288 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 1.0 bingos.
There were 752 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was Fifth Row, incomplete on 1048 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Fifth Row, with a total of 3440 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was Fourth Column, incomplete on 955 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was Fifth Column, with a total of 2435 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|984|2723|
|Second Row|986|2734|
|Third Row|974|2758|
|Fourth Row|956|2456|
|Fifth Row|1048|3440|
|First Column|989|3012|
|Second Column|1006|3218|
|Third Column|994|2822|
|Fourth Column|955|2624|
|Fifth Column|1005|2435|
|Diagonal|1039|3052|
|Antidiagonal|1012|3285|

## Stats for Individual Squares

### 1. First in a Series

#### Most Read Books

- **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, read 29 times
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, read 18 times
- TIE: **The Will of the Many** by James Islington and **Rivers of London** by Ben Aaronovitch and **Empire of Silence** by Christopher Ruocchio, each read 13 times
- TIE: **Paladin's Grace** by T. Kingfisher and **The Color of Magic** by Terry Pratchett, each read 12 times
- TIE: **Before the Coffee Gets Cold** by Toshikazu Kawaguchi and **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin and **The Grace of Kings** by Ken Liu and **Every Heart a Doorway** by Seanan McGuire and **Gideon the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir, each read 11 times

**TOTAL**: 1339 books read, with 683 unique titles.
898 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
472 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 11 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Matt Dinniman, read 29 times
- Martha Wells, read 26 times
- TIE: Terry Pratchett and Sarah J. Maas, each read 19 times
- TIE: Seanan McGuire and Brandon Sanderson, each read 17 times
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Becky Chambers, each read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 1374 total authors read, with 597 unique.
395 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.3|7.5|
|Black|0.9|1.2|
|White|67.1|48.8|
|Unknown|23.9|41.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|8.0|4.5|
|Unknown|88.4|92.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|37.5|26.9|
|Nonbinary|0.8|1.7|
|Woman|37.2|29.9|
|Unknown|24.5|41.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|7.4|6.5|
|Unknown|92.0|93.0|

### 2. Alliterative Title

#### Most Read Books

- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by Shannon Chakraborty, read 107 times
- **The Lies of Locke Lamora** by Scott Lynch, read 80 times
- **The Haunting of Hill House** by Shirley Jackson, read 42 times
- **Princess Floralinda and the Forty-Flight Tower** by Tamsyn Muir, read 34 times
- **The Utterly Uninteresting and Unadventurous Tales of Fred, the Vampire Accountant** by Drew Hayes, read 27 times

**TOTAL**: 1328 books read, with 520 unique titles.
627 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
359 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 25 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Shannon Chakraborty, read 107 times
- Scott Lynch, read 81 times
- Tamsyn Muir, read 43 times
- Shirley Jackson, read 42 times
- Seanan McGuire, read 37 times

**TOTAL**: 1350 total authors read, with 451 unique.
286 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|4.1|5.0|
|Black|1.4|1.5|
|White|68.7|46.8|
|Unknown|25.8|46.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|0.7|1.5|
|United States|4.0|4.1|
|Unknown|91.0|93.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|31.0|23.5|
|Nonbinary|1.2|1.7|
|Woman|42.0|28.0|
|Unknown|25.8|46.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|12.1|6.2|
|Unknown|87.0|93.5|

### 3. Under the Surface

#### Most Read Books

- **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, read 105 times
- **The Luminous Dead** by Caitlin Starling, read 52 times
- **Our Wives Under the Sea** by Julia Armfield, read 50 times
- **A Letter to the Luminous Deep** by Sylvie Cathrall, read 49 times
- **The Deep** by Rivers Solomon, read 44 times

**TOTAL**: 1313 books read, with 440 unique titles.
892 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
315 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 32 times. Substituted 8 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Matt Dinniman, read 145 times
- Caitlin Starling, read 53 times
- TIE: Julia Armfield and Sylvie Cathrall, each read 50 times
- Rivers Solomon, read 44 times
- Martha Wells, read 42 times

**TOTAL**: 1328 total authors read, with 359 unique.
247 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|2.8|4.4|
|Black|5.6|1.6|
|Hispanic|0.5|1.9|
|White|65.7|47.5|
|Unknown|25.5|44.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United Kingdom|0.5|1.1|
|United States|6.2|4.4|
|Unknown|92.2|92.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|38.4|27.9|
|Nonbinary|4.5|3.6|
|Woman|31.6|23.8|
|Unknown|25.5|44.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|16.9|9.3|
|Unknown|82.9|90.4|

### 4. Criminals

#### Most Read Books

- **Six of Crows** by Leigh Bardugo, read 70 times
- **Foundryside** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 59 times
- **A Tempest of Tea** by Hafsah Faizal, read 51 times
- **The Palace Job** by Patrick Weekes, read 39 times
- **The Lies of Locke Lamora** by Scott Lynch, read 37 times

**TOTAL**: 1319 books read, with 501 unique titles.
730 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
365 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 28 times. Substituted 6 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Leigh Bardugo, read 80 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 67 times
- Scott Lynch, read 54 times
- Hafsah Faizal, read 53 times
- Patrick Weekes, read 42 times

**TOTAL**: 1349 total authors read, with 406 unique.
266 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|8.3|5.2|
|Black|3.0|2.4|
|White|57.5|43.7|
|Unknown|30.2|46.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|8.0|4.3|
|Unknown|90.1|93.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|30.2|29.1|
|Nonbinary|6.5|3.1|
|Woman|33.1|21.3|
|Unknown|30.2|46.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|10.0|7.8|
|Unknown|89.9|92.0|

### 5. Dreams

#### Most Read Books

- **The Lathe of Heaven** by Ursula K. Le Guin, read 34 times
- **Thornhedge** by T. Kingfisher, read 27 times
- **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, read 24 times
- TIE: **The Princess Bride** by William Goldman and **Red Rising** by Pierce Brown, each read 17 times
- **Strange the Dreamer** by Laini Taylor, read 15 times

**TOTAL**: 1318 books read, with 788 unique titles.
593 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
591 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 26 times. Substituted 9 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- T. Kingfisher, read 49 times
- Ursula K. Le Guin, read 46 times
- Simon Jimenez, read 25 times
- TIE: Neil Gaiman and Pierce Brown, each read 18 times
- TIE: William Goldman and Robin Hobb, each read 17 times

**TOTAL**: 1331 total authors read, with 603 unique.
413 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.7|6.1|
|Black|2.9|3.1|
|Hispanic|1.4|1.8|
|White|59.1|45.5|
|Unknown|29.5|42.7|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|4.6|4.1|
|Unknown|92.2|92.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|29.7|23.9|
|Nonbinary|2.0|2.3|
|Woman|38.5|30.9|
|Unknown|29.8|42.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|9.4|8.1|
|Unknown|90.2|91.4|

### 6. Entitled Animals

#### Most Read Books

- **The Last Unicorn** by Peter S. Beagle, read 55 times
- **I’m Afraid You’ve Got Dragons** by Peter S. Beagle, read 42 times
- **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi, read 41 times
- **A Natural History of Dragons** by Marie Brennan, read 40 times
- **To Shape a Dragon's Breath** by Moniquill Blackgoose, read 37 times

**TOTAL**: 1301 books read, with 473 unique titles.
768 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
312 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 46 times. Substituted 6 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Peter S. Beagle, read 99 times
- Marie Brennan, read 66 times
- John Scalzi, read 41 times
- Moniquill Blackgoose, read 37 times
- S.A. MacLean, read 31 times

**TOTAL**: 1324 total authors read, with 393 unique.
231 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|8.5|5.4|
|Black|3.2|1.7|
|Native|3.4|1.5|
|White|57.5|41.9|
|Unknown|27.0|48.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|9.8|6.4|
|Unknown|88.1|92.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|33.8|23.6|
|Woman|38.6|26.8|
|Unknown|27.0|48.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.4|4.9|
|Unknown|91.5|94.8|

### 7. Bards

#### Most Read Books

- **A River Enchanted** by Rebecca Ross, read 138 times
- **The Bone Harp** by Victoria Goddard, read 68 times
- **The Harp of Kings** by Juliet Marillier, read 58 times
- **Bloody Rose** by Nicholas Eames, read 49 times
- **The Lark and the Wren** by Mercedes Lackey, read 43 times

**TOTAL**: 1225 books read, with 356 unique titles.
677 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
234 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 63 times. Substituted 64 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Rebecca Ross, read 165 times
- Victoria Goddard, read 74 times
- Juliet Marillier, read 62 times
- Mercedes Lackey, read 57 times
- Nicholas Eames, read 51 times

**TOTAL**: 1243 total authors read, with 291 unique.
185 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.0|5.3|
|Black|2.0|2.7|
|White|64.8|41.9|
|Unknown|26.7|49.2|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.3|3.0|
|Unknown|93.2|94.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|20.6|24.9|
|Nonbinary|1.8|1.3|
|Woman|51.0|24.9|
|Unknown|26.6|48.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|9.5|7.6|
|Unknown|90.5|92.4|

### 8. Prologues and Epilogues

#### Most Read Books

- TIE: **Wind and Truth** by Brandon Sanderson and **Bride** by Ali Hazelwood, each read 37 times
- **The Way of Kings** by Brandon Sanderson, read 13 times
- TIE: **Going Postal** by Terry Pratchett and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Iron Widow** by Xiran Jay Zhao, each read 12 times
- TIE: **The Jasmine Throne** by Tasha Suri and **Red Sister** by Mark Lawrence and **Orconomics** by J. Zachary Pike and **Leviathan Wakes** by James S.A. Corey and **Somewhere Beyond the Sea** by T.J. Klune, each read 10 times
- TIE: **A Memory Called Empire** by Arkady Martine and **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree and **The Cruel Prince** by Holly Black, each read 9 times

**TOTAL**: 1313 books read, with 734 unique titles.
834 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
522 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 37 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Brandon Sanderson, read 104 times
- Ali Hazelwood, read 37 times
- TIE: Travis Baldree and Will Wight, each read 21 times
- TIE: James S.A. Corey and Tasha Suri, each read 20 times
- Mark Lawrence, read 18 times

**TOTAL**: 1335 total authors read, with 532 unique.
336 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.2|4.6|
|Black|1.9|1.8|
|Hispanic|1.2|1.1|
|White|59.8|45.6|
|Unknown|30.4|46.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|12.3|4.4|
|Unknown|84.3|93.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|39.8|26.3|
|Nonbinary|2.4|2.4|
|Woman|27.3|24.6|
|Unknown|30.6|46.7|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.9|5.9|
|Unknown|90.9|93.9|

### 9. Self-Published or Indie Publisher

#### Most Read Books

- **The Sign of the Dragon** by Mary Soon Lee, read 19 times
- TIE: **The Wings Upon Her Back** by Samantha Mills and **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang, each read 17 times
- **Murder at Spindle Manor** by Morgan Stang, read 16 times
- **Unsouled** by Will Wight, read 12 times
- **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić, read 10 times

**TOTAL**: 1253 books read, with 885 unique titles.
536 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
729 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 60 times. Substituted 40 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Morgan Stang, read 28 times
- Will Wight, read 26 times
- M.L. Wang, read 22 times
- TIE: Mary Soon Lee and Raymond St. Elmo, each read 19 times
- Matt Dinniman, read 18 times

**TOTAL**: 1281 total authors read, with 754 unique.
583 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.7|1.8|
|White|36.8|24.2|
|Unknown|58.1|72.4|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|3.2|1.4|
|Unknown|95.3|97.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|19.4|11.8|
|Nonbinary|2.3|1.6|
|Woman|19.7|14.1|
|Unknown|58.6|72.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|4.9|4.6|
|Unknown|95.1|95.4|

### 10. Romantasy

#### Most Read Books

- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 39 times
- **A Marvellous Light** by Freya Marske, read 37 times
- **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros, read 33 times
- **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, read 28 times
- **Bride** by Ali Hazelwood, read 26 times

**TOTAL**: 1307 books read, with 541 unique titles.
699 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
367 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 36 times. Substituted 10 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Freya Marske, read 71 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 58 times
- Rebecca Yarros, read 52 times
- Sarah J. Maas, read 43 times
- TIE: Amal El-Mohtar and Max Gladstone, each read 39 times

**TOTAL**: 1357 total authors read, with 406 unique.
247 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.4|11.5|
|Black|2.1|1.2|
|White|54.8|38.8|
|Unknown|36.0|47.4|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|2.9|8.2|
|United States|4.6|2.9|
|Unknown|91.8|88.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|11.1|14.4|
|Nonbinary|6.6|3.3|
|Woman|46.0|34.6|
|Unknown|36.3|47.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|23.9|11.8|
|Unknown|76.1|88.2|

### 11. Dark Academia

#### Most Read Books

- **Ninth House** by Leigh Bardugo, read 119 times
- **Blood Over Bright Haven** by M.L. Wang, read 85 times
- **Bunny** by Mona Awad, read 67 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 66 times
- **A Study in Drowning** by Ava Reid, read 55 times

**TOTAL**: 1247 books read, with 275 unique titles.
582 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
187 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 63 times. Substituted 42 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Leigh Bardugo, read 151 times
- M.L. Wang, read 85 times
- Naomi Novik, read 73 times
- TIE: Mona Awad and R.F. Kuang, each read 68 times
- Ava Reid, read 55 times

**TOTAL**: 1312 total authors read, with 236 unique.
144 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|6.8|2.9|
|Black|5.3|2.3|
|White|55.2|24.3|
|Unknown|30.6|69.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|1.3|1.7|
|Unknown|98.5|97.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|11.2|11.9|
|Nonbinary|1.8|1.2|
|Woman|56.5|17.4|
|Unknown|30.6|69.6|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|5.3|4.9|
|Unknown|94.7|95.1|

### 12. Multi-POV

#### Most Read Books

- **Spinning Silver** by Naomi Novik, read 33 times
- **Wind and Truth** by Brandon Sanderson, read 26 times
- TIE: **The Atlas Six** by Olivie Blake and **Jade City** by Fonda Lee, each read 20 times
- TIE: **The Blade Itself** by Joe Abercrombie and **Floating Hotel** by Grace Curtis, each read 16 times
- **Five Broken Blades** by Mai Corland, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 1322 books read, with 710 unique titles.
895 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
512 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 31 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Brandon Sanderson, read 66 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 37 times
- Fonda Lee, read 35 times
- Joe Abercrombie, read 34 times
- Naomi Novik, read 33 times

**TOTAL**: 1341 total authors read, with 502 unique.
313 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|10.7|6.2|
|Black|1.8|2.3|
|Hispanic|2.8|1.6|
|White|60.0|48.6|
|Unknown|23.3|40.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United Kingdom|3.2|1.2|
|United States|8.8|4.1|
|Unknown|87.3|93.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|39.1|29.8|
|Nonbinary|1.6|2.1|
|Woman|35.9|27.6|
|Unknown|23.3|40.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.7|6.6|
|Unknown|93.1|93.2|

### 13. Published in 2024

#### Most Read Books

- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 55 times
- **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, read 50 times
- **Wind and Truth** by Brandon Sanderson, read 37 times
- TIE: **The Ministry of Time** by Kaliane Bradley and **The Wings Upon Her Back** by Samantha Mills, each read 30 times
- **The Familiar** by Leigh Bardugo, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 1317 books read, with 449 unique titles.
583 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
278 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 31 times. Substituted 5 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 55 times
- John Wiswell, read 50 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 37 times
- TIE: Kaliane Bradley and Samantha Mills, each read 30 times
- Leigh Bardugo, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 1333 total authors read, with 447 unique.
274 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.3|4.4|
|Black|0.9|2.0|
|White|32.6|26.6|
|Unknown|62.0|65.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|9.7|3.1|
|Unknown|89.0|94.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|21.2|15.8|
|Nonbinary|0.5|1.1|
|Woman|16.4|17.6|
|Unknown|62.0|65.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.0|4.2|
|Unknown|92.0|95.6|

### 14. Character with a Disability

#### Most Read Books

- **Godkiller** by Hannah Kaner, read 65 times
- **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, read 53 times
- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 44 times
- TIE: **The Blade Itself** by Joe Abercrombie and **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros, each read 35 times
- **Sunbringer** by Hannah Kaner, read 29 times

**TOTAL**: 1313 books read, with 559 unique titles.
1093 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
389 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 37 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Hannah Kaner, read 94 times
- Joe Abercrombie, read 86 times
- Rebecca Yarros, read 64 times
- Simon Jimenez, read 53 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 45 times

**TOTAL**: 1333 total authors read, with 428 unique.
274 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|8.4|6.1|
|Black|5.0|3.4|
|Hispanic|1.0|1.6|
|White|46.1|43.7|
|Unknown|36.7|44.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|8.0|4.1|
|Unknown|82.7|93.7|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|29.3|24.8|
|Nonbinary|4.7|3.4|
|Woman|29.3|27.0|
|Unknown|36.8|44.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|15.5|11.5|
|Unknown|84.5|88.3|

### 15. Published in the 1990s

#### Most Read Books

- **Sabriel** by Garth Nix, read 61 times
- **Assassin's Apprentice** by Robin Hobb, read 33 times
- **I Who Have Never Known Men** by Jacqueline Harpman, read 29 times
- TIE: **Parable of the Sower** by Octavia E. Butler and **City of Bones** by Martha Wells, each read 24 times
- **Tigana** by Guy Gavriel Kay, read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 1250 books read, with 437 unique titles.
767 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
283 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 65 times. Substituted 36 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Terry Pratchett, read 81 times
- Robin Hobb, read 72 times
- Garth Nix, read 63 times
- Guy Gavriel Kay, read 50 times
- Martha Wells, read 44 times

**TOTAL**: 1291 total authors read, with 259 unique.
138 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|3.0|3.9|
|Black|3.8|1.9|
|White|70.8|55.2|
|Unknown|21.5|37.4|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|11.9|8.4|
|Unknown|86.8|89.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|36.1|36.8|
|Woman|42.4|25.8|
|Unknown|21.5|37.4|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|1.8|2.6|
|Unknown|98.1|97.1|

### 16. Orcs, Trolls, and Goblins - Oh My!

#### Most Read Books

- **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree, read 151 times
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 138 times
- **The Goblin Emperor** by Katherine Addison, read 112 times
- **Nine Goblins** by T. Kingfisher, read 60 times
- **The Unspoken Name** by A.K. Larkwood, read 44 times

**TOTAL**: 1280 books read, with 331 unique titles.
824 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
228 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 57 times. Substituted 16 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 293 times
- Katherine Addison, read 124 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 64 times
- Christopher Buehlman, read 59 times
- A.K. Larkwood, read 57 times

**TOTAL**: 1311 total authors read, with 246 unique.
155 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|0.7|2.2|
|Black|0.5|1.8|
|White|78.6|35.8|
|Unknown|20.2|60.2|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.9|3.2|
|Unknown|93.1|94.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|52.6|22.2|
|Woman|27.0|16.8|
|Unknown|20.2|60.2|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|30.2|4.3|
|Unknown|69.6|95.0|

### 17. Space Opera

#### Most Read Books

- **Some Desperate Glory** by Emily Tesh, read 72 times
- **The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet** by Becky Chambers, read 60 times
- **A Memory Called Empire** by Arkady Martine, read 42 times
- **Ancillary Justice** by Ann Leckie, read 40 times
- **Space Opera** by Catherynne M. Valente, read 29 times

**TOTAL**: 1269 books read, with 370 unique titles.
795 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
218 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 61 times. Substituted 23 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Ann Leckie, read 90 times
- Becky Chambers, read 87 times
- Emily Tesh, read 72 times
- TIE: James S.A. Corey and Arkady Martine, each read 67 times
- Lois McMaster Bujold, read 51 times

**TOTAL**: 1314 total authors read, with 251 unique.
139 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|4.8|5.1|
|Black|2.4|4.4|
|Hispanic|1.1|1.4|
|White|72.7|45.9|
|Unknown|19.0|43.2|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.6|5.1|
|Unknown|92.4|92.9|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|27.8|28.2|
|Nonbinary|3.4|4.1|
|Woman|49.8|24.5|
|Unknown|19.0|43.2|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|26.3|12.6|
|Unknown|73.4|86.7|

### 18. Author of Color

#### Most Read Books

- **The Saint of Bright Doors** by Vajra Chandrasekera, read 46 times
- **Chain-Gang All-Stars** by Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, read 44 times
- **To Shape a Dragon's Breath** by Moniquill Blackgoose, read 36 times
- **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan, read 29 times
- **The Teller of Small Fortunes** by Julie Leong, read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 1304 books read, with 533 unique titles.
613 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
325 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 47 times. Substituted 2 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Vajra Chandrasekera, read 47 times
- P. Djèlí Clark, read 46 times
- Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, read 45 times
- Moniquill Blackgoose, read 36 times
- TIE: Octavia E. Butler and Nghi Vo, each read 30 times

**TOTAL**: 1344 total authors read, with 407 unique.
235 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|28.3|20.5|
|Black|22.4|11.4|
|Hispanic|3.9|2.6|
|Native|5.1|2.4|
|White|0.7|2.1|
|Unknown|39.1|60.7|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|1.9|1.4|
|United States|8.6|4.3|
|Unknown|84.4|92.1|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|21.1|13.3|
|Nonbinary|5.1|2.6|
|Woman|34.7|23.3|
|Unknown|39.1|60.7|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|13.0|5.7|
|Unknown|86.0|93.8|

### 19. Survival

#### Most Read Books

- **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir, read 51 times
- **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, read 44 times
- **Chain-Gang All-Stars** by Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, read 38 times
- **The Martian** by Andy Weir, read 27 times
- **Sixteen Ways to Defend a Walled City** by K.J. Parker, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 1319 books read, with 667 unique titles.
1089 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
495 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 34 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Andy Weir, read 79 times
- Matt Dinniman, read 58 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 39 times
- Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah, read 38 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 1337 total authors read, with 526 unique.
347 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|5.8|6.6|
|Black|6.9|3.4|
|White|51.5|42.5|
|Unknown|34.6|46.0|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.8|3.8|
|Unknown|92.1|92.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|35.4|24.9|
|Nonbinary|1.9|3.0|
|Woman|27.7|25.7|
|Unknown|35.0|46.4|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.7|8.3|
|Unknown|93.0|91.3|

### 20. Judge a Book by Its Cover

#### Most Read Books

- TIE: **Starter Villain** by John Scalzi and **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, each read 18 times
- TIE: **Water Moon** by Samantha Sotto Yambao and **The Spellshop** by Sarah Beth Durst, each read 15 times
- TIE: **When Among Crows** by Veronica Roth and **The Book That Wouldn't Burn** by Mark Lawrence, each read 10 times
- TIE: **The Teller of Small Fortunes** by Julie Leong and **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, each read 9 times
- TIE: **A Magical Girl Retires** by Park Seolyeon and **The Mountain in the Sea** by Ray Nayler and **How To Become the Dark Lord and Die Trying** by Django Wexler, each read 8 times

**TOTAL**: 1307 books read, with 880 unique titles.
799 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
702 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 38 times. Substituted 8 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- John Scalzi, read 20 times
- Simon Jimenez, read 18 times
- TIE: Samantha Sotto Yambao and Sarah Beth Durst, each read 15 times
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Brandon Sanderson, each read 14 times
- Mark Lawrence, read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 1342 total authors read, with 746 unique.
526 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.7|6.9|
|Black|1.6|2.1|
|Hispanic|1.5|1.4|
|White|43.1|34.8|
|Unknown|44.0|54.5|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|5.1|3.3|
|Unknown|92.8|94.4|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|24.1|19.0|
|Nonbinary|3.1|3.3|
|Woman|28.7|22.9|
|Unknown|44.1|54.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|10.5|8.0|
|Unknown|89.3|91.9|

### 21. Set in a Small Town

#### Most Read Books

- **Starling House** by Alix E. Harrow, read 72 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 70 times
- **The Spellshop** by Sarah Beth Durst, read 24 times
- TIE: **The Library at Mount Char** by Scott Hawkins and **Emily Wilde's Map of the Otherlands** by Heather Fawcett, each read 18 times
- TIE: **The Bear and the Nightingale** by Katherine Arden and **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang, each read 17 times

**TOTAL**: 1311 books read, with 608 unique titles.
942 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
445 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 34 times. Substituted 8 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Heather Fawcett, read 88 times
- Alix E. Harrow, read 75 times
- Stephen King, read 44 times
- T.J. Klune, read 30 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 28 times

**TOTAL**: 1341 total authors read, with 483 unique.
318 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|2.2|2.1|
|Black|2.3|2.5|
|Hispanic|1.4|1.2|
|Native|2.4|1.2|
|White|53.4|36.5|
|Unknown|38.3|56.6|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|4.4|3.1|
|Unknown|93.5|94.8|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|24.2|18.4|
|Nonbinary|1.7|1.5|
|Woman|35.0|23.2|
|Unknown|39.1|56.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|8.9|5.0|
|Unknown|91.1|95.0|

### 22. Five SFF Short Stories

#### Most Read Books

- **Exhalation** by Ted Chiang, read 40 times
- **Buried Deep and Other Stories** by Naomi Novik, read 39 times
- **Never Whistle at Night** by Shane Hawk, Theodore C. Van Alst Jr., read 28 times
- **Her Body and Other Parties** by Carmen Maria Machado, read 21 times
- **Stories of Your Life and Others** by Ted Chiang, read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 1083 books read, with 564 unique titles.
1006 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
417 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 63 times. Substituted 34 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Ted Chiang, read 60 times
- Naomi Novik, read 51 times
- Ken Liu, read 34 times
- TIE: Shane Hawk and Theodore C. Van Alst Jr., each read 31 times
- Carmen Maria Machado, read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 1679 total authors read, with 709 unique.
423 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|10.5|4.3|
|Black|3.8|2.9|
|Hispanic|2.9|1.5|
|Native|0.8|1.1|
|White|40.8|34.2|
|Unknown|41.0|55.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United Kingdom|1.7|1.2|
|United States|6.4|5.4|
|Unknown|91.0|92.6|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|27.3|20.1|
|Nonbinary|1.5|1.9|
|Woman|29.5|21.3|
|Unknown|41.7|56.7|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.7|6.0|
|Unknown|93.2|93.8|

### 23. Eldritch Creatures

#### Most Read Books

- **Annihilation** by Jeff VanderMeer, read 76 times
- **Ring Shout** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 71 times
- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 43 times
- **The Fisherman** by John Langan, read 36 times
- **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, read 28 times

**TOTAL**: 1302 books read, with 547 unique titles.
1076 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
385 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 39 times. Substituted 11 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Jeff VanderMeer, read 91 times
- P. Djèlí Clark, read 74 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 64 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 51 times
- John Langan, read 36 times

**TOTAL**: 1350 total authors read, with 422 unique.
270 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|7.6|8.6|
|Black|8.4|1.8|
|Hispanic|0.8|1.6|
|White|56.5|45.2|
|Unknown|26.0|42.4|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|6.6|4.5|
|Unknown|88.7|92.7|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|46.2|27.9|
|Nonbinary|3.0|4.1|
|Woman|24.6|25.3|
|Unknown|26.2|42.8|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|9.3|9.8|
|Unknown|90.7|90.0|

### 24. Reference Materials

#### Most Read Books

- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 46 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 28 times
- **The Will of the Many** by James Islington, read 27 times
- **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang, read 25 times
- TIE: **Wind and Truth** by Brandon Sanderson and **How To Become the Dark Lord and Die Trying** by Django Wexler, each read 19 times

**TOTAL**: 1307 books read, with 663 unique titles.
847 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
472 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 44 times. Substituted 2 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Brandon Sanderson, read 55 times
- Heather Fawcett, read 47 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 46 times
- M.L. Wang, read 32 times
- James Islington, read 28 times

**TOTAL**: 1323 total authors read, with 459 unique.
290 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|5.8|6.7|
|Black|2.1|2.2|
|White|59.4|49.6|
|Unknown|30.9|40.3|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|United States|10.2|3.9|
|Unknown|86.4|93.7|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|33.7|26.6|
|Nonbinary|1.8|2.2|
|Woman|33.5|30.7|
|Unknown|31.0|40.5|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|6.6|6.1|
|Unknown|92.5|93.5|

### 25. Book Club or Readalong Book

#### Most Read Books

- **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett, read 57 times
- **Godkiller** by Hannah Kaner, read 42 times
- **The Spellshop** by Sarah Beth Durst, read 31 times
- **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, read 26 times
- **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez, read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 1230 books read, with 342 unique titles.
402 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
167 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 59 times. Substituted 64 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 61 times
- Hannah Kaner, read 43 times
- Sarah Beth Durst, read 31 times
- John Wiswell, read 26 times
- Octavia E. Butler, read 25 times

**TOTAL**: 1250 total authors read, with 269 unique.
114 authors were used only once for this square.

Author demographics, as described in the overall stats on authors:

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|13.4|13.0|
|Black|4.8|5.3|
|Hispanic|0.5|1.3|
|White|56.2|58.0|
|Unknown|24.8|21.3|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|1.5|5.3|
|United States|7.1|6.0|
|Unknown|88.6|86.3|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|26.8|31.3|
|Nonbinary|2.1|4.0|
|Woman|46.1|43.0|
|Unknown|25.0|21.7|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|15.2|15.7|
|Unknown|84.8|84.3|

## Substitutions

Out of 1353 cards, 403 used the Substitution rule.

### Books

- TIE: **Dark Matter** by Blake Crouch and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, each read 4 times
- TIE: **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke and **Witch King** by Martha Wells and **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune and **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson and **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir, each read 3 times
- TIE: **Emperor of Thorns** by Mark Lawrence and **Rakesfall** by Vajra Chandrasekera and **The Legacy of Yangchen** by F.C. Yee and **Daughter of the Pirate King** by Tricia Levenseller and **Lady Macbeth** by Ava Reid and **Kings of the Wyld** by Nicholas Eames and **Navola** by Paolo Bacigalupi and **Sea of Tranquility** by Emily St. John Mandel and **The Space Between Worlds** by Micaiah Johnson and **Recursion** by Blake Crouch and **The Saint of Bright Doors** by Vajra Chandrasekera and **The City in Glass** by Nghi Vo and **Every Heart a Doorway** by Seanan McGuire and **The Tainted Cup** by Robert Jackson Bennett and **I Who Have Never Known Men** by Jacqueline Harpman and **A Sorceress Comes to Call** by T. Kingfisher and **Memories of Ice** by Steven Erikson and **Hench** by Natalie Zina Walschots and **Deadman Walking** by C.B. Titus and **The Orb of Cairado** by Katherine Addison and **The Library at Mount Char** by Scott Hawkins, each read 2 times

### Authors

- Martha Wells, read 8 times
- TIE: T. Kingfisher and Brandon Sanderson, each read 7 times
- TIE: Blake Crouch and Seanan McGuire and T.J. Klune, each read 6 times

### Squares

**Young Adult 2023**, substituted on 8 cards; **Sequel 2023**, substituted on 7 cards; **Myths and Retellings 2023** and **Multiverse and Alternate Realities 2023** and **Horror 2023** and **Novella 2023** and **Mundane Jobs 2023**, substituted on 6 cards each.

## Variety

The FarraGini index, [introduced in 2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/) (see Part III),
attempts to measure the variety of books and authors read for each square.
Each entity's "income" for a square is the number of times it was used for that square,
so the index is analogous to its namesake, the [Gini index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gini_coefficient):

Values close to 0 suggest a square was well-varied; 0 means no book was repeated for a square.
Values close to 100 suggest the same books were used repeatedly for a square; 100 means only one book was used for a square.

|SQUARE|BOOK|AUTHOR|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First in a Series|40.9|47.0|
|Alliterative Title|54.1|58.1|
|Under the Surface|60.0|65.8|
|Criminals|56.1|61.9|
|Dreams|35.0|47.0|
|Entitled Animals|55.0|59.4|
|Bards|62.9|68.0|
|Prologues and Epilogues|37.4|50.5|
|Self-Published or Indie Publisher|26.6|36.7|
|Romantasy|50.6|60.6|
|Dark Academia|70.4|73.2|
|Multi-POV|39.8|53.4|
|Published in 2024|55.3|55.7|
|Character with a Disability|50.8|59.9|
|Published in the 1990s|55.1|66.2|
|Orcs, Trolls, and Goblins - Oh My!|68.5|74.6|
|Space Opera|59.4|69.9|
|Author of Color|48.7|57.5|
|Survival|43.5|52.2|
|Judge a Book by Its Cover|28.9|37.4|
|Set in a Small Town|47.8|55.7|
|Five SFF Short Stories|42.3|47.0|
|Eldritch Creatures|51.2|59.8|
|Reference Materials|42.8|55.6|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|55.4|58.0|

The squares with the most variety in books:
- **Self-Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Judge a Book by Its Cover**
- **Dreams**

The squares with the most variety in authors:
- **Self-Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Judge a Book by Its Cover**
- **Dreams**

The squares with the least variety in books:
- **Dark Academia**
- **Orcs, Trolls, and Goblins - Oh My!**
- **Bards**

The squares with the least variety in authors:
- **Orcs, Trolls, and Goblins - Oh My!**
- **Dark Academia**
- **Space Opera**

<INSERT COMMENTARY HERE>

## Year Over Year Changes

New this year: year-over-year statistics! For numbers from before 2022, I have scavenged from previous stats and data posts.

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

## Wall of Shame

Quoting the [very first bingo stats post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/),

> You are all terrible spellers.

A "misspelling" for the purposes of these statistics is any book (title/author combination)
that does not match the version used as the canonical version during cleaning.
There were a total of 7980 misspellings.
(Note that this does not include short stories.)

The books with the most variation in title or author spellings were:

- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by Shannon Chakraborty, with 37 variations
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, with 34 variations
- TIE: **Never Whistle at Night** by Shane Hawk, Theodore C. Van Alst Jr. and **Blood Over Bright Haven** by M.L. Wang, with 22 variations each
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, with 21 variations
- TIE: **Chain-Gang All-Stars** by Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah and **Monstress** by Marjorie M. Liu, Sana Takeda, with 20 variations each
- **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman, with 18 variations
- TIE: **Vita Nostra** by Marina Dyachenko, Sergey Dyachenko and **The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet** by Becky Chambers and **Someone You Can Build a Nest In** by John Wiswell, with 17 variations each
- TIE: **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree and **DallerGut Dream Department Store** by Lee Mi-ye, with 16 variations each
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, with 15 variations
- TIE: **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang and **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić, with 14 variations each

What makes a book hard to "spell" correctly?

- Length
- Lots of articles or prepositions
- Non-ASCII characters
- Lots of authors
- Numbers
- Somewhat obviously, books that were published under multiple titles

Predictably, there's a lot of crossover between books with the most variations and the most-read books overall.
