# New Bingo Stats Hub

This post was consistently too long to post in its entirety and making one comment per square was getting old.
In order to better support the length, I've spun up a GitHub Pages site to host all of the stats: https://smartflutist661.github.io/rfantasy-bingo-stats.
The remainder of this post is an _abbreviated_ version (no plots, no per-square statistics),
but I recommend just going to the page for [this year's stats](https://smartflutist661.github.io/rfantasy-bingo-stats/2023).

# Preliminary Notes

Most of this post, and all of these statistics, were generated by a script I wrote, [available on GitHub](https://github.com/smartflutist661/rfantasy-bingo-stats),
Anyone is welcome to view the enhancements I currently have in mind, request new statistics, or contribute there.
You can find the raw data, corrected data, and some more extensive summary statistics at that link, as well.
See [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12gyb45/cleaning_2022_and_future_bingo_data/) for some technical details.

Format has been shamelessly copied from previous bingo stats posts:
  - [2023](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/1cd0kdk/statistics_for_the_2023_rfantasy_bingo/)
  - [2022](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12xs3c1/2022_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/ude8f4/2021_rfantasy_bingo_stats/)
  - [2020](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/npvigf/2020_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2019](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/gjq0ym/2019_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/bbm35a/2018_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2016](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)

Likewise, the following notes are shamelessly adapted.

1. Stories were not examined for fitness. If you used **1984** for **Novella**, it was included in the statistics for that square.
In addition, if you did something like, say, put **The Lost Metal** as a short story, I made no effort to figure out where it actually belonged.
2. When a series was specified, it was collapsed to the first book. Graphic novels, light novels, manga, and webserials were collapsed from issues to the overall series.
3. Books by multiple authors were counted once for each author.
E.g.: **In the Heart of Darkness** by Eric Flint and David Drake counts as a read for both Eric Flint and David Drake.
*However*, books by a writing team with a single-author pseudonym, e.g. M.A. Carrick, were counted once for the pseudonym, and not for the authors behind the pseudonym.
4. Author demographic statistics are now included below. However, researching all 3948 individual authors
is quite an undertaking, and there is still a reasonable amount of information missing, especially regarding Nationality.
By the time next year's stats roll around I hope to have it reasonably complete.
5. Short stories were excluded from most of the stats below. They *were* included in the total story count.

# And Now: The Stats
    
## Overall Stats

### Squares and Cards

- There were 929 cards submitted, 84 of which were incomplete.
The minimum number of filled squares was 5. 5 were *this close*, with 24 filled squares.
649 squares were left blank, leaving 22576 filled squares.
- There were 23096 total stories, with 6691 unique stories read,
by 3948 unique authors (23709 total).
4143 books and 2133 authors were used only once. 
- The top squares left blank were: **Druid** and **Set in the Middle East**, blank on 46 cards each; **Superheroes**, blank on 44 cards; **Elemental Magic**, blank on 38 cards. On the other hand, **Sequel** was only left blank 9 times.
- The squares most often substituted were: **Druid**, substituted on 58 cards; **Superheroes**, substituted on 34 cards; **Book Club or Readalong Book**, substituted on 31 cards.
**Multiverses** and **Sequel** were never substituted.
This means that Druid was the least favorite overall, skipped or substituted a total of 104 times, and
Sequel was the favorite, skipped or substituted only 9 times.
- There were an average of 4.5 unique books per card.
- 182 cards claimed an all-hard-mode card, while 31 cards were short by one square.
3 cards claimed no hard-mode squares at all. The average number of hard-mode squares per card was 17.0.
There were a total of 15749 hard-mode squares claimed.

|SQUARE|% COMPLETE|% HARD MODE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Title with a Title|98.7|80.2|
|Superheroes|95.1|84.0|
|Bottom of the TBR|97.2|97.2|
|Magical Realism|97.1|81.7|
|Young Adult|98.3|69.6|
|Mundane Jobs|98.5|59.5|
|Published in the 2000s|96.6|72.7|
|Angels and Demons|96.7|55.0|
|Five Short Stories|95.9|81.2|
|Horror|98.3|91.9|
|Self Published or Indie Publisher|96.3|41.3|
|Set in the Middle East|94.9|53.7|
|Published in 2023|97.7|40.1|
|Multiverses|97.7|72.3|
|POC Author|97.8|46.5|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|97.3|32.1|
|Novella|98.1|64.9|
|Mythical Beasts|98.0|62.8|
|Elemental Magic|95.8|87.1|
|Myths and Retellings|97.3|78.3|
|Queernorm Setting|97.7|66.1|
|Coastal Setting|97.7|69.2|
|Druid|94.7|84.3|
|Features Robots|96.5|61.0|
|Sequel|99.0|75.9|

### Books

The ten most-read books were:

- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by Shannon Chakraborty, read 209 times
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 186 times
- **Hench** by Natalie Zina Walschots, read 124 times
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, read 120 times
- **System Collapse** by Martha Wells, read 114 times
- **Untethered Sky** by Fonda Lee, read 106 times
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, read 102 times
- **The Stardust Thief** by Chelsea Abdullah, read 97 times
- **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, read 96 times
- **Small Miracles** by Olivia Atwater, read 94 times

The books used for the most squares were:

- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, used for 12 squares
- ***TIE***: **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros and **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić and **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez and **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone and **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, each used for 10 squares
- ***TIE***: **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Mammoths at the Gates** by Nghi Vo and **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir and **Starling House** by Alix E. Harrow and **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune and **The Lightning Thief** by Rick Riordan, each used for 9 squares

**Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić was the book read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 15 times for 10 squares.

One of those interesting stats phenomena: even though most cards only include a few unique books, most of the books read are unique.
There were an average of 3.4 reads per book.

### Authors

The ten most-read authors were:

- Martha Wells, read 441 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 380 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 349 times
- Shannon Chakraborty, read 277 times
- Travis Baldree, read 269 times
- Terry Pratchett, read 233 times
- Neil Gaiman, read 229 times
- Becky Chambers, read 210 times
- Naomi Novik, read 197 times
- T.J. Klune, read 191 times

The authors used for the most squares were:

- Brandon Sanderson, used for 26 squares
- T. Kingfisher, used for 22 squares
- ***TIE***: Adrian Tchaikovsky and Seanan McGuire and Terry Pratchett, each used for 20 squares

Charlie Jane Anders was the author read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 8 squares.

The authors with the most unique books read were:

- Terry Pratchett, with 40 unique books read
- Brandon Sanderson, with 37 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Seanan McGuire and Stephen King, each with 32 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Lois McMaster Bujold and Mercedes Lackey, each with 26 unique books read
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, with 25 unique books read
- Ursula K. Le Guin, with 24 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Jim Butcher and Neil Gaiman, each with 23 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Ilona Andrews and T. Kingfisher, each with 22 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Garth Nix and Tamora Pierce, each with 20 unique books read
- Will Wight, with 19 unique books read

As with books, most authors were read only once.
There were an average of 6.0 reads per author.

The following tables represent a best-effort attempt at a statistical breakdown of author demographics.
The "Overall %" column represents the _total_ number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts 349 times for each of his demographic groups.
The "Unique %" column represents the unique number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts only once, no matter how many squares or cards he appears on.

Demographics representing less than 1% of the unique authors are not included in these tables. 

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|9.3|5.7|
|Black|4.4|2.1|
|Hispanic|1.7|1.2|
|White|56.7|29.6|
|Unknown|26.7|60.8|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|1.3|1.7|
|United States|8.1|3.9|
|Unknown|87.8|93.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|30.0|19.2|
|Nonbinary|3.0|1.6|
|Woman|40.0|18.3|
|Unknown|27.0|60.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|13.2|5.4|
|Unknown|86.6|94.5|

### Bingos

#### Normal Mode

There were 10400 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 3.1 bingos.
There were 10 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingos by number of cards were Second Row and Third Column, incomplete on 69 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Second Row, with a total of 161 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was Fifth Row, incomplete on 52 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was Fifth Row, with a total of 87 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|55|104|
|Second Row|69|161|
|Third Row|65|142|
|Fourth Row|68|155|
|Fifth Row|52|87|
|First Column|65|125|
|Second Column|64|130|
|Third Column|69|141|
|Fourth Column|62|124|
|Fifth Column|56|129|
|Diagonal|59|112|
|Antidiagonal|64|113|

#### Hard Mode

There were 3578 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 1.9 bingos.
There were 296 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was First Row, incomplete on 715 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Third Column, with a total of 2306 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was First Column, incomplete on 469 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was First Column, with a total of 839 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|715|2051|
|Second Row|627|1486|
|Third Row|651|1529|
|Fourth Row|560|1118|
|Fifth Row|610|1292|
|First Column|469|839|
|Second Column|628|1327|
|Third Column|705|2306|
|Fourth Column|695|1627|
|Fifth Column|602|1377|
|Diagonal|652|1366|
|Antidiagonal|656|1678|

## Variety

The FarraGini index, [introduced in 2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/) (see Part III),
attempts to measure the variety of books and authors read for each square.
Each entity's "income" for a square is the number of times it was used for that square,
so the index is analogous to its namesake, the [Gini index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gini_coefficient):

Values close to 0 suggest a square was well-varied; 0 means no book was repeated for a square.
Values close to 100 suggest the same books were used repeatedly for a square; 100 means only one book was used for a square.

|SQUARE|BOOK|AUTHOR|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Title with a Title|41.3|49.6|
|Superheroes|60.7|63.3|
|Bottom of the TBR|24.1|41.3|
|Magical Realism|44.0|50.8|
|Young Adult|37.5|49.5|
|Mundane Jobs|48.4|55.2|
|Published in the 2000s|38.7|53.1|
|Angels and Demons|57.3|65.0|
|Five Short Stories|36.1|40.5|
|Horror|47.6|55.8|
|Self Published or Indie Publisher|27.6|37.1|
|Set in the Middle East|69.8|71.8|
|Published in 2023|50.9|52.8|
|Multiverses|52.5|62.0|
|POC Author|47.6|59.3|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|53.4|53.8|
|Novella|47.3|58.8|
|Mythical Beasts|45.3|54.5|
|Elemental Magic|50.2|60.4|
|Myths and Retellings|49.0|55.8|
|Queernorm Setting|51.2|62.2|
|Coastal Setting|52.1|57.5|
|Druid|57.2|62.8|
|Features Robots|66.4|72.1|
|Sequel|32.0|52.2|

The squares with the most variety in books:
- **Bottom of the TBR**
- **Self Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Sequel**

The squares with the most variety in authors:
- **Self Published or Indie Publisher**
- **Five Short Stories**
- **Bottom of the TBR**

The squares with the least variety in books:
- **Set in the Middle East**
- **Features Robots**
- **Superheroes**

The squares with the least variety in authors:
- **Features Robots**
- **Set in the Middle East**
- **Angels and Demons**

## Wall of Shame

Quoting the [very first bingo stats post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/),

> You are all terrible spellers.

A "misspelling" for the purposes of these statistics is any book (title/author combination)
that does not match the version used as the canonical version during cleaning.
There were a total of 6027 misspellings.
(Note that this does not include short stories.)

The books with the most variation in title or author spellings were:

- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, with 40 variations
- **The Adventures of Amina al-Sirafi** by Shannon Chakraborty, with 39 variations
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, with 23 variations
- **Good Omens** by Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett, with 21 variations
- **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin, with 19 variations
- ***TIE***: **Avatar: The Rise of Kyoshi** by F.C. Yee, Michael Dante DiMartino and **The Frugal Wizard's Handbook for Surviving Medieval England** by Brandon Sanderson, with 18 variations each
- **Emily Wilde's Encyclopaedia of Faeries** by Heather Fawcett, with 17 variations
- ***TIE***: **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, with 16 variations each
- **One Piece** by Eiichiro Oda, with 15 variations
- ***TIE***: **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark and **Lore Olympus** by Rachel Smythe and **Silver in the Wood** by Emily Tesh and **The Druid's Call** by E.K. Johnston, with 13 variations each

What makes a book hard to "spell" correctly?

- Length
- Lots of articles or prepositions
- Non-ASCII characters (diacritics, etc.)
- Lots of authors
- Numbers
- Somewhat obviously, books that were published under multiple titles

Predictably, there's a lot of crossover between books with the most variations and the most-read books overall.

## Substitutions

Out of 929 cards, 305 used the Substitution rule.

### Books

- **Ninth House** by Leigh Bardugo, read 4 times
- ***TIE***: **Ancillary Justice** by Ann Leckie and **Ink Blood Sister Scribe** by Emma Törzs and **Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell** by Susanna Clarke and **Rivers of London** by Ben Aaronovitch and **Sea of Tranquility** by Emily St. John Mandel and **The Book That Wouldn't Burn** by Mark Lawrence, each read 3 times
- ***TIE***: **A Dowry of Blood** by S.T. Gibson and **A Marvellous Light** by Freya Marske and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Babel** by R.F. Kuang and **Bookshops & Bonedust** by Travis Baldree and **Children of Memory** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Children of Time** by Adrian Tchaikovsky and **Dungeon Crawler Carl** by Matt Dinniman and **Fourth Wing** by Rebecca Yarros and **Hummingbird Salamander** by Jeff VanderMeer and **Ice Planet Barbarians** by Ruby Dixon and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Lord of Light** by Roger Zelazny and **Mistborn** by Brandon Sanderson and **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher and **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **Red Rising** by Pierce Brown and **The Butcher of the Forest** by Premee Mohamed and **The Gilded Wolves** by Roshani Chokshi and **The Spear Cuts Through Water** by Simon Jimenez and **The Werewolf of Whitechapel** by Suzannah Rowntree and **The Will of the Many** by James Islington and **Three Parts Dead** by Max Gladstone and **Translation State** by Ann Leckie, each read 2 times

### Authors

- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 6 times
- ***TIE***: Ann Leckie and Brandon Sanderson and Leigh Bardugo, each read 5 times
- ***TIE***: Ben Aaronovitch and Max Gladstone and Roger Zelazny and Travis Baldree, each read 4 times

### Squares

**Set in Space 2022** and **Standalone 2022**, substituted on 9 cards each; **Historical SFF 2022**, substituted on 8 cards; **Mystery Plot 2021** and **Urban Fantasy 2022**, substituted on 7 cards each.
