# Preliminary Notes

Most of this post, and all of these statistics, were generated by a script I wrote, [available on GitHub](https://github.com/smartflutist661/rfantasy-bingo-stats),
Anyone is welcome to view the enhancments I currently have in mind, request new statistics, or contribute there.
You can find the raw data, corrected data, and some more extensive summary statistics at that link, as well.
See [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12gyb45/cleaning_2022_and_future_bingo_data/) for some technical details.

Format has been shamelessly copied from previous bingo stats posts:

  - [2022](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12xs3c1/2022_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/ude8f4/2021_rfantasy_bingo_stats/)
  - [2020](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/npvigf/2020_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2019](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/gjq0ym/2019_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/bbm35a/2018_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2016](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)

Likewise, the following notes are shamelessly adapted.

1. Stories were not examined for fitness. If you used **1984** for **Novella**, it was included in the statistics for that square.
In addition, if you did something like, say, put **The Lost Metal** as a short story, I made no effort to figure out where it actually belonged.
2. When a series was specified, it was collapsed to the first book. Graphic novels, light novels, manga, and webserials were collapsed from issues to the overall series.
3. Books by multiple authors were counted once for each author. E.g.: **In the Heart of Darkness** by Eric Flint and David Drake counts as a read for both Eric Flint and David Drake.
*However*, books by a writing team with a single-author pseudonym, e.g. M.A. Carrick, were counted once for the pseudonym, and not for the authors behind the pseudonym.
4. Author demographic statistics are not included below, for two reasons: it quickly gets messy and culturally-specific,
and I didn't want to stalk all 3413 individual authors. Machinery for these calculations are included in the script, however,
so if anyone would like to supply demographic information, it is easy to include.
5. Short stories were excluded from most of the stats below. They *were* included in the total story count.

# And Now: The Stats
    
## Overall Stats

### Squares and Cards

- There were 822 cards submitted, 96 of which were incomplete.
The minimum number of filled squares was 2. 6 were *this close*, with 24 filled squares.
863 squares were left blank, leaving 19687 filled squares.
- There were 20143 total stories, with 5607 unique stories read,
by 3413 unique authors (21171 total).
3447 books and 1823 authors were used only once. 
- The top squares left blank were: **Set in Africa**, blank on 66 cards; **Five Short Stories**, blank on 53 cards; **Self-Published**, blank on 50 cards. On the other hand, **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts** was only left blank 18 times.
- The three squares most often substituted were: **Self-Published**, substituted on 32 cards; **Set in Africa**, substituted on 30 cards; **Book Club or Readalong Book**, substituted on 24 cards.
**No Ifs, Ands, or Buts** and **Non-Human Protagonist** were never substituted.
This means that Set in Africa was the least favorite overall, skipped or substituted a total of 96 times, and
No Ifs, Ands, or Buts was the favorite, skipped or substituted only 18 times.
- There were an average of 4.2 unique books per card.
- 152 cards claimed an all-hard-mode card, while 15 cards were short by one square.
4 cards claimed no hard-mode squares at all. The average number of hard-mode squares per card was 14.8.
There were a total of 12196 hard-mode squares claimed.

|SQUARE|% COMPLETE|% HARD MODE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|LGBTQIA List Book|95.9|52.2|
|Weird Ecology|95.5|92.7|
|Two or More Authors|95.5|39.3|
|Historical SFF|95.6|68.4|
|Set In Space|96.9|60.1|
|Stand-alone|97.7|80.6|
|Anti-Hero|97.1|43.3|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|94.9|32.0|
|Cool Weapon|97.3|73.7|
|Revolutions and Rebellions|97.3|69.6|
|Name in the Title|96.2|47.9|
|Author Uses Initials|96.6|47.6|
|Published in 2022|97.2|43.7|
|Urban Fantasy|96.2|51.3|
|Set in Africa|91.7|72.5|
|Non-Human Protagonist|94.9|55.7|
|Wibbly Wobbly Timey Wimey|96.4|59.5|
|Five Short Stories|93.4|79.1|
|Mental Health|94.6|78.4|
|Self-Published|93.7|38.6|
|Award Finalist|94.0|64.2|
|BIPOC Author|95.2|42.3|
|Shapeshifters|95.6|75.4|
|No Ifs, Ands, or Buts|97.8|62.9|
|Family Matters|96.7|58.6|

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

### Books

The ten most-read books were:

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 278 times
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 161 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 121 times
- **The Cloud Roads** by Martha Wells, read 111 times
- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 102 times
- **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher, read 97 times
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 87 times
- TIE: **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi, each read 85 times
- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 84 times
- **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan, read 83 times

The books used for the most squares were:

- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, used for 12 squares
- TIE: **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells and **Light from Uncommon Stars** by Ryka Aoki, each used for 11 squares
- TIE: **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Circe** by Madeline Miller and **The Lost Metal** by Brandon Sanderson and **When Women Were Dragons** by Kelly Barnhill and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir and **The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches** by Sangu Mandanna, each used for 10 squares

**The Sandman** by Neil Gaiman was the book read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 8 squares.

<INSERT PLOT HERE>

One of those interesting stats phenomena: even though most cards only include a few unique books, most of the books read are unique.
There were an average of 3.5 reads per book.

### Authors

The ten most-read authors were:

- T. Kingfisher, read 349 times
- Becky Chambers, read 317 times
- Travis Baldree, read 278 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 271 times
- Martha Wells, read 255 times
- P. Djèlí Clark, read 224 times
- Naomi Novik, read 213 times
- Tamsyn Muir, read 193 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 177 times
- R.F. Kuang, read 161 times

The authors used for the most squares were:

- Terry Pratchett, used for 22 squares
- Brandon Sanderson, used for 20 squares
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, used for 17 squares

Lavie Tidhar was the author read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 8 squares.

The authors with the most unique books read were:

- Terry Pratchett, with 38 unique books read
- Brandon Sanderson, with 33 unique books read
- Lois McMaster Bujold, with 27 unique books read
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, with 26 unique books read
- TIE: Jim Butcher and Seanan McGuire, each with 23 unique books read
- TIE: Mercedes Lackey and T. Kingfisher, each with 22 unique books read
- Neil Gaiman, with 21 unique books read
- TIE: Ilona Andrews and K.J. Parker, each with 19 unique books read
- C.J. Cherryh, with 18 unique books read
- TIE: Martha Wells and Will Wight, each with 17 unique books read

<INSERT_PLOT_HERE>

As with books, most authors were read only once.
There were an average of 6.2 reads per author.

## Stats for Individual Squares

### 1. LGBTQIA List Book

#### Most Read Books

- **Silver in the Wood** by Emily Tesh, read 36 times
- **The Song of Achilles** by Madeline Miller, read 27 times
- **The Cloud Roads** by Martha Wells, read 26 times
- TIE: **Foundryside** by Robert Jackson Bennett and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir, each read 25 times
- **To Be Taught, If Fortunate** by Becky Chambers, read 24 times

**TOTAL**: 775 books read, with 139 unique titles.
422 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
45 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 33 times. Substituted 14 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Tamsyn Muir, read 52 times
- Robert Jackson Bennett, read 49 times
- Becky Chambers, read 48 times
- Emily Tesh, read 41 times
- T.J. Klune, read 31 times

**TOTAL**: 798 total authors read, with 70 unique.
18 authors were used only once for this square.

### 2. Weird Ecology

#### Most Read Books

- **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi, read 62 times
- **The Bone Ships** by R.J. Barker, read 38 times
- **Semiosis** by Sue Burke, read 31 times
- **The Fifth Season** by N.K. Jemisin, read 28 times
- **Tress of the Emerald Sea** by Brandon Sanderson, read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 781 books read, with 296 unique titles.
758 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
199 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 37 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- John Scalzi, read 62 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 59 times
- R.J. Barker, read 52 times
- N.K. Jemisin, read 37 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 35 times

**TOTAL**: 799 total authors read, with 218 unique.
137 authors were used only once for this square.

### 3. Two or More Authors

#### Most Read Books

- **The Vela** by Yoon Ha Lee, Becky Chambers, Rivers Solomon, S.L. Huang, read 65 times
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 41 times
- TIE: **The Mask of Mirrors** by M.A. Carrick and **Leviathan Wakes** by James S.A. Corey, each read 33 times
- **Vita Nostra** by Marina Dyachenko, Sergey Dyachenko, read 26 times
- **Good Omens** by Neil Gaiman, Terry Pratchett, read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 763 books read, with 325 unique titles.
314 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
232 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 36 times. Substituted 23 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Rivers Solomon, read 78 times
- James S.A. Corey, read 71 times
- Becky Chambers, read 66 times
- TIE: Yoon Ha Lee and S.L. Huang, each read 65 times
- Max Gladstone, read 45 times

**TOTAL**: 1623 total authors read, with 526 unique.
316 authors were used only once for this square.

### 4. Historical SFF

#### Most Read Books

- **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan, read 39 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 24 times
- **Siren Queen** by Nghi Vo, read 21 times
- TIE: **A Marvellous Light** by Freya Marske and **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark and **The Song of Achilles** by Madeline Miller, each read 15 times
- **Between Two Fires** by Christopher Buehlman, read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 781 books read, with 363 unique titles.
559 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
256 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 36 times. Substituted 5 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Shelley Parker-Chan, read 39 times
- Nghi Vo, read 32 times
- TIE: Guy Gavriel Kay and R.F. Kuang, each read 30 times
- Madeline Miller, read 25 times
- Katherine Arden, read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 789 total authors read, with 278 unique.
176 authors were used only once for this square.

### 5. Set In Space

#### Most Read Books

- TIE: **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet** by Becky Chambers, each read 46 times
- **A Desolation Called Peace** by Arkady Martine, read 32 times
- TIE: **Ninefox Gambit** by Yoon Ha Lee and **Harrow the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir, each read 19 times
- TIE: **The Spare Man** by Mary Robinette Kowal and **The Darkness Outside Us** by Eliot Schrefer, each read 13 times
- TIE: **Record of a Spaceborn Few** by Becky Chambers and **Network Effect** by Martha Wells, each read 12 times

**TOTAL**: 792 books read, with 294 unique titles.
491 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
175 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 25 times. Substituted 5 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Becky Chambers, read 72 times
- Andy Weir, read 47 times
- Arkady Martine, read 37 times
- Martha Wells, read 32 times
- Yoon Ha Lee, read 31 times

**TOTAL**: 828 total authors read, with 214 unique.
113 authors were used only once for this square.

### 6. Stand-alone

#### Most Read Books

- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 40 times
- **Under the Whispering Door** by T.J. Klune, read 13 times
- TIE: **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi and **The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches** by Sangu Mandanna, each read 12 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 10 times
- TIE: **Station Eleven** by Emily St. John Mandel and **Light from Uncommon Stars** by Ryka Aoki and **A Wizard's Guide to Defensive Baking** by T. Kingfisher and **Upgrade** by Blake Crouch, each read 9 times

**TOTAL**: 799 books read, with 474 unique titles.
659 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
355 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 19 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Susanna Clarke, read 40 times
- T.J. Klune, read 21 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 16 times
- John Scalzi, read 14 times
- TIE: Travis Baldree and Emily St. John Mandel and Silvia Moreno-Garcia and Neil Gaiman and Blake Crouch and Sangu Mandanna, each read 12 times

**TOTAL**: 805 total authors read, with 392 unique.
271 authors were used only once for this square.

### 7. Anti-Hero

#### Most Read Books

- **Iron Widow** by Xiran Jay Zhao, read 52 times
- **Six of Crows** by Leigh Bardugo, read 35 times
- **A Deadly Education** by Naomi Novik, read 28 times
- **The Blade Itself** by Joe Abercrombie, read 22 times
- **Half a King** by Joe Abercrombie, read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 794 books read, with 356 unique titles.
354 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
268 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 24 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Joe Abercrombie, read 62 times
- Xiran Jay Zhao, read 52 times
- Leigh Bardugo, read 51 times
- Naomi Novik, read 40 times
- Holly Black, read 30 times

**TOTAL**: 812 total authors read, with 282 unique.
194 authors were used only once for this square.

### 8. Book Club or Readalong Book

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 42 times
- **The Cartographers** by Peng Shepherd, read 25 times
- **The Blacktongue Thief** by Christopher Buehlman, read 22 times
- **The Order of the Pure Moon Reflected in Water** by Zen Cho, read 18 times
- **All the Murmuring Bones** by A.G. Slatter, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 757 books read, with 248 unique titles.
255 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
113 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 41 times. Substituted 24 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 42 times
- Peng Shepherd, read 25 times
- Christopher Buehlman, read 22 times
- Zen Cho, read 18 times
- A.G. Slatter, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 789 total authors read, with 212 unique.
77 authors were used only once for this square.

### 9. Cool Weapon

#### Most Read Books

- **Spear** by Nicola Griffith, read 40 times
- **Daughter of the Moon Goddess** by Sue Lynn Tan, read 20 times
- **Legendborn** by Tracy Deonn, read 19 times
- TIE: **Elric of Melniboné** by Michael Moorcock and **Kings of the Wyld** by Nicholas Eames, each read 17 times
- **Warbreaker** by Brandon Sanderson, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 793 books read, with 355 unique titles.
601 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
235 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 22 times. Substituted 6 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Nicola Griffith, read 40 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 39 times
- Will Wight, read 30 times
- TIE: Andrew Rowe and Nicholas Eames, each read 29 times
- Tracy Deonn, read 26 times

**TOTAL**: 808 total authors read, with 238 unique.
134 authors were used only once for this square.

### 10. Revolutions and Rebellions

#### Most Read Books

- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 52 times
- **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan, read 28 times
- **Red Rising** by Pierce Brown, read 21 times
- TIE: **Mistborn** by Brandon Sanderson and **The Unbroken** by C.L. Clark and **The Traitor Baru Cormorant** by Seth Dickinson, each read 17 times
- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 795 books read, with 376 unique titles.
569 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
273 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 22 times. Substituted 5 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- R.F. Kuang, read 56 times
- Pierce Brown, read 36 times
- Shelley Parker-Chan, read 28 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 22 times
- Seth Dickinson, read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 807 total authors read, with 307 unique.
207 authors were used only once for this square.

### 11. Name in the Title

#### Most Read Books

- **The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle** by Stuart Turton, read 43 times
- **The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue** by V.E. Schwab, read 39 times
- **The Traitor Baru Cormorant** by Seth Dickinson, read 27 times
- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 24 times
- **The Lies of Locke Lamora** by Scott Lynch, read 22 times

**TOTAL**: 787 books read, with 297 unique titles.
392 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
195 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 31 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Tamsyn Muir, read 55 times
- Susanna Clarke, read 44 times
- Stuart Turton, read 43 times
- V.E. Schwab, read 40 times
- Seth Dickinson, read 38 times

**TOTAL**: 794 total authors read, with 251 unique.
153 authors were used only once for this square.

### 12. Author Uses Initials

#### Most Read Books

- **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher, read 80 times
- **A Wizard's Guide to Defensive Baking** by T. Kingfisher, read 54 times
- **What Moves the Dead** by T. Kingfisher, read 21 times
- **The Mask of Mirrors** by M.A. Carrick, read 18 times
- **Sixteen Ways to Defend a Walled City** by K.J. Parker, read 17 times

**TOTAL**: 791 books read, with 318 unique titles.
390 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
215 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 28 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- T. Kingfisher, read 231 times
- K.J. Parker, read 49 times
- James S.A. Corey, read 33 times
- M.A. Carrick, read 25 times
- N.K. Jemisin, read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 797 total authors read, with 192 unique.
121 authors were used only once for this square.

### 13. Published in 2022

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 120 times
- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 41 times
- **Daughter of the Moon Goddess** by Sue Lynn Tan, read 26 times
- **The Lost Metal** by Brandon Sanderson, read 21 times
- **Kaikeyi** by Vaishnavi Patel, read 19 times

**TOTAL**: 798 books read, with 300 unique titles.
359 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
211 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 23 times. Substituted 1 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 120 times
- Naomi Novik, read 41 times
- Sue Lynn Tan, read 26 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 21 times
- Vaishnavi Patel, read 19 times

**TOTAL**: 808 total authors read, with 297 unique.
207 authors were used only once for this square.

### 14. Urban Fantasy

#### Most Read Books

- **Jade City** by Fonda Lee, read 26 times
- **The Atlas Six** by Olivie Blake, read 21 times
- TIE: **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik and **The City We Became** by N.K. Jemisin and **White Trash Warlock** by David R. Slayton, each read 16 times
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 15 times
- TIE: **Neverwhere** by Neil Gaiman and **Rivers of London** by Ben Aaronovitch, each read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 787 books read, with 387 unique titles.
420 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
273 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 31 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Fonda Lee, read 53 times
- Jim Butcher, read 35 times
- Ben Aaronovitch, read 32 times
- N.K. Jemisin, read 29 times
- Olivie Blake, read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 823 total authors read, with 309 unique.
205 authors were used only once for this square.

### 15. Set in Africa

#### Most Read Books

- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 105 times
- **The Rage of Dragons** by Evan Winter, read 43 times
- **Remote Control** by Nnedi Okorafor, read 31 times
- **Raybearer** by Jordan Ifueko, read 29 times
- TIE: **Rosewater** by Tade Thompson and **Noor** by Nnedi Okorafor and **The Haunting of Tram Car 015** by P. Djèlí Clark, each read 23 times

**TOTAL**: 726 books read, with 143 unique titles.
574 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
64 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 66 times. Substituted 30 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- P. Djèlí Clark, read 144 times
- Nnedi Okorafor, read 124 times
- Evan Winter, read 54 times
- Jordan Ifueko, read 45 times
- Tade Thompson, read 29 times

**TOTAL**: 776 total authors read, with 130 unique.
66 authors were used only once for this square.

### 16. Non-Human Protagonist

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 65 times
- **Hollow Kingdom** by Kira Jane Buxton, read 54 times
- **Children of Time** by Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 26 times
- **Tooth and Claw** by Jo Walton, read 25 times
- TIE: **The Last Unicorn** by Peter S. Beagle and **The Raven Tower** by Ann Leckie, each read 21 times

**TOTAL**: 780 books read, with 305 unique titles.
458 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
224 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 42 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Travis Baldree, read 65 times
- Kira Jane Buxton, read 60 times
- Martha Wells, read 52 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 35 times
- Becky Chambers, read 30 times

**TOTAL**: 790 total authors read, with 241 unique.
163 authors were used only once for this square.

### 17. Wibbly Wobbly Timey Wimey

#### Most Read Books

- **Sea of Tranquility** by Emily St. John Mandel, read 32 times
- **The Space Between Worlds** by Micaiah Johnson, read 23 times
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 22 times
- TIE: **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić and **The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle** by Stuart Turton, each read 21 times
- **The Hands of the Emperor** by Victoria Goddard, read 15 times

**TOTAL**: 786 books read, with 362 unique titles.
485 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
257 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 29 times. Substituted 7 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Emily St. John Mandel, read 32 times
- TIE: Micaiah Johnson and Max Gladstone, each read 23 times
- Amal El-Mohtar, read 22 times
- TIE: Domagoj Kurmaić and Stuart Turton, each read 21 times
- TIE: Victoria Goddard and Blake Crouch, each read 20 times

**TOTAL**: 826 total authors read, with 298 unique.
200 authors were used only once for this square.

### 18. Five Short Stories

#### Most Read Books

- **Exhalation** by Ted Chiang, read 30 times
- **Stories of Your Life and Others** by Ted Chiang, read 16 times
- TIE: **Sooner or Later Everything Falls Into the Sea** by Sarah Pinsker and **Her Body and Other Parties** by Carmen Maria Machado, each read 11 times
- **How Long 'til Black Future Month?** by N.K. Jemisin, read 10 times
- **The Last Wish** by Andrzej Sapkowski, read 9 times

**TOTAL**: 634 books read, with 355 unique titles.
634 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
251 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 53 times. Substituted 20 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Ted Chiang, read 46 times
- Andrzej Sapkowski, read 14 times
- TIE: N.K. Jemisin and Ken Liu and Jonathan Strahan, each read 13 times
- Neil Gaiman, read 12 times
- TIE: Sarah Pinsker and Carmen Maria Machado, each read 11 times

**TOTAL**: 929 total authors read, with 446 unique.
275 authors were used only once for this square.

### 19. Mental Health

#### Most Read Books

- **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers, read 24 times
- TIE: **A Taste of Gold and Iron** by Alexandra Rowland and **Elder Race** by Adrian Tchaikovsky, each read 19 times
- **The Midnight Library** by Matt Haig, read 17 times
- **Witchmark** by C.L. Polk, read 15 times
- TIE: **Under the Whispering Door** by T.J. Klune and **A Prayer for the Crown-Shy** by Becky Chambers, each read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 772 books read, with 391 unique titles.
640 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
282 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 44 times. Substituted 6 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Becky Chambers, read 39 times
- TIE: Mary Robinette Kowal and T.J. Klune, each read 24 times
- Alexandra Rowland, read 21 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 19 times
- Matt Haig, read 17 times

**TOTAL**: 778 total authors read, with 304 unique.
196 authors were used only once for this square.

### 20. Self-Published

#### Most Read Books

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 28 times
- **Unsouled** by Will Wight, read 23 times
- **The Midnight Bargain** by C.L. Polk, read 14 times
- TIE: **The Sword of Kaigen** by M.L. Wang and **The Lord of Stariel** by A.J. Lancaster, each read 11 times
- TIE: **Orconomics** by J. Zachary Pike and **Dreadgod** by Will Wight, each read 9 times

**TOTAL**: 740 books read, with 502 unique titles.
305 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
410 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 50 times. Substituted 32 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Will Wight, read 46 times
- Travis Baldree, read 28 times
- TIE: C.L. Polk and A.J. Lancaster, each read 15 times
- TIE: M.L. Wang and T. Kingfisher, each read 11 times
- TIE: Krista D. Ball and Andrew Rowe, each read 10 times

**TOTAL**: 768 total authors read, with 436 unique.
332 authors were used only once for this square.

### 21. Award Finalist

#### Most Read Books

- **A Deadly Education** by Naomi Novik, read 24 times
- **A Natural History of Dragons** by Marie Brennan, read 17 times
- **The Bear and the Nightingale** by Katherine Arden, read 14 times
- **Last Argument of Kings** by Joe Abercrombie, read 11 times
- **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers, read 10 times

**TOTAL**: 762 books read, with 442 unique titles.
521 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
315 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 49 times. Substituted 11 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Naomi Novik, read 30 times
- Joe Abercrombie, read 23 times
- Becky Chambers, read 20 times
- Marie Brennan, read 17 times
- Catherynne M. Valente, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 775 total authors read, with 332 unique.
213 authors were used only once for this square.

### 22. BIPOC Author

#### Most Read Books

- **Black Sun** by Rebecca Roanhorse, read 66 times
- **Fevered Star** by Rebecca Roanhorse, read 35 times
- **Elatsoe** by Darcie Little Badger, read 34 times
- **The Only Good Indians** by Stephen Graham Jones, read 24 times
- **Trail of Lightning** by Rebecca Roanhorse, read 19 times

**TOTAL**: 779 books read, with 322 unique titles.
346 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
218 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 39 times. Substituted 4 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Rebecca Roanhorse, read 132 times
- Darcie Little Badger, read 52 times
- Stephen Graham Jones, read 46 times
- TIE: N.K. Jemisin and Octavia E. Butler, each read 28 times
- Nghi Vo, read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 789 total authors read, with 224 unique.
132 authors were used only once for this square.

### 23. Shapeshifters

#### Most Read Books

- **The Cloud Roads** by Martha Wells, read 44 times
- **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin, read 25 times
- **Paladin's Strength** by T. Kingfisher, read 18 times
- **The Hand of the Sun King** by J.T. Greathouse, read 14 times
- TIE: **When Women Were Dragons** by Kelly Barnhill and **Wild Seed** by Octavia E. Butler, each read 12 times

**TOTAL**: 784 books read, with 426 unique titles.
618 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
311 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 36 times. Substituted 2 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Martha Wells, read 57 times
- Ursula K. Le Guin, read 26 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 22 times
- T. Kingfisher, read 18 times
- TIE: J.T. Greathouse and Patricia Briggs, each read 16 times

**TOTAL**: 801 total authors read, with 329 unique.
212 authors were used only once for this square.

### 24. No Ifs, Ands, or Buts

#### Most Read Books

- **Light from Uncommon Stars** by Ryka Aoki, read 25 times
- **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir, read 23 times
- **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells, read 20 times
- **Black Water Sister** by Zen Cho, read 15 times
- **Howl's Moving Castle** by Diana Wynne Jones, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 804 books read, with 490 unique titles.
517 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
380 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 18 times. Substituted 0 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- TIE: Martha Wells and Ryka Aoki, each read 25 times
- Andy Weir, read 23 times
- TIE: Terry Pratchett and Zen Cho and Sarah Gailey, each read 15 times
- Diana Wynne Jones, read 14 times
- TIE: Ben Aaronovitch and Joe Abercrombie and Max Gladstone, each read 13 times

**TOTAL**: 818 total authors read, with 408 unique.
282 authors were used only once for this square.

### 25. Family Matters

#### Most Read Books

- **Jade City** by Fonda Lee, read 29 times
- **The Inheritance of Orquídea Divina** by Zoraida Córdova, read 21 times
- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 19 times
- TIE: **Black Water Sister** by Zen Cho and **Jade Legacy** by Fonda Lee, each read 15 times
- **The Hands of the Emperor** by Victoria Goddard, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 792 books read, with 476 unique titles.
480 books were claimed to qualify for hard mode.
375 books were used only once for this square.
Skipped 27 times. Substituted 3 times.

#### Most Read Authors

- Fonda Lee, read 54 times
- Robin Hobb, read 27 times
- TIE: Naomi Novik and Zoraida Córdova, each read 22 times
- Zen Cho, read 15 times
- Victoria Goddard, read 14 times

**TOTAL**: 816 total authors read, with 363 unique.
237 authors were used only once for this square.

## Substitutions

Out of 822 cards, 222 used the Substitution rule.

### Books

- TIE: **The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches** by Sangu Mandanna and **The Grief of Stones** by Katherine Addison and **The Priory of the Orange Tree** by Samantha Shannon and **A Natural History of Dragons** by Marie Brennan, each read 3 times
- TIE: **Into the Riverlands** by Nghi Vo and **Six Crimson Cranes** by Elizabeth Lim and **The Blacktongue Thief** by Christopher Buehlman and **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells and **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Hogfather** by Terry Pratchett and **The Sandman** by Neil Gaiman and **Berserk** by Kentaro Miura and **The Fall of Babel** by Josiah Bancroft and **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan and **The Name of the Wind** by Patrick Rothfuss and **Red Sister** by Mark Lawrence and **Dune Messiah** by Frank Herbert and **The Girl and the Stars** by Mark Lawrence, each read 2 times

### Authors

- TIE: Terry Pratchett and Mark Lawrence, each read 5 times
- TIE: Becky Chambers and Marie Brennan, each read 4 times
- TIE: Sangu Mandanna and Nghi Vo and Elizabeth Lim and Katherine Addison and Stephen King and Samantha Shannon, each read 3 times

### Squares

**Cat Squasher 2021**, substituted on 8 cards; **Set in Asia 2021**, substituted on 7 cards; **Comfort Read 2021**, substituted on 6 cards.

## Variety

The FarraGini index, [introduced in 2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/) (see Part III),
attempts to measure the variety of books and authors read for each square.
Each entity's "income" for a square is the number of times it was used for that square,
so the index is analogous to its namesake, the [Gini index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gini_coefficient):

Values close to 0 suggest a square was well-varied; 0 means no book was repeated for a square.
Values close to 100 suggest the same books were used repeatedly for a square; 100 means only one book was used for a square.

|SQUARE|BOOK|AUTHOR|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|LGBTQIA List Book|55.2|53.2|
|Weird Ecology|54.2|63.9|
|Two or More Authors|51.5|59.1|
|Historical SFF|45.9|55.1|
|Set In Space|52.0|61.1|
|Stand-alone|35.5|43.9|
|Anti-Hero|49.7|58.0|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|49.7|49.9|
|Cool Weapon|46.3|58.3|
|Revolutions and Rebellions|46.4|53.7|
|Name in the Title|53.2|58.0|
|Author Uses Initials|52.0|68.5|
|Published in 2022|55.8|56.3|
|Urban Fantasy|43.9|54.0|
|Set in Africa|63.6|71.7|
|Non-Human Protagonist|55.1|62.2|
|Wibbly Wobbly Timey Wimey|46.9|54.3|
|Five Short Stories|37.3|41.6|
|Mental Health|42.3|50.9|
|Self-Published|29.2|38.6|
|Award Finalist|35.3|47.3|
|BIPOC Author|51.0|62.1|
|Shapeshifters|39.8|49.7|
|No Ifs, Ands, or Buts|34.7|42.7|
|Family Matters|35.9|46.7|

The squares with the most variety in books:
- **Self-Published**
- **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts**
- **Award Finalist**

The squares with the most variety in authors:
- **Self-Published**
- **Five Short Stories**
- **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts**

The squares with the least variety in books:
- **Set in Africa**
- **Published in 2022**
- **LGBTQIA List Book**

The squares with the least variety in authors:
- **Set in Africa**
- **Author Uses Initials**
- **Weird Ecology**

<INSERT COMMENTARY HERE>

## Year Over Year Changes

New this year: year-over-year statistics! For numbers from before 2022, I have scavenged from previous stats and data posts.

<INSERT PLOTS HERE>

## Wall of Shame

Quoting the [very first bingo stats post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/),

> You are all terrible spellers.

A "misspelling" for the purposes of these statistics is any book (title/author combination)
that does not match the version used as the canonical version during cleaning.
There were a total of 5626 misspellings.
(Note that this does not include short stories.)

The books with the most variation in title or author spellings were:

- **The Vela** by Yoon Ha Lee, Becky Chambers, Rivers Solomon, S.L. Huang, with 40 variations
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, with 26 variations
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, with 24 variations
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, with 22 variations
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, with 21 variations
- **The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle** by Stuart Turton, with 19 variations
- **The Mask of Mirrors** by M.A. Carrick, with 15 variations
- TIE: **The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue** by V.E. Schwab and **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić, with 14 variations each
- TIE: **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune and **Saga** by Brian K. Vaughan, Fiona Staples and **The Fifth Season** by N.K. Jemisin, with 13 variations each
- TIE: **The Bone Ships** by R.J. Barker and **The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet** by Becky Chambers and **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin and **Monstress** by Marjorie M. Liu, Sana Takeda, with 12 variations each

What makes a book hard to "spell" correctly?

- Length
- Lots of articles or prepositions
- Non-ASCII characters
- Lots of authors
- Numbers
- Somewhat obviously, books that were published under multiple titles

Predictably, there's a lot of crossover between books with the most variations and the most-read books overall.
