# New Bingo Stats Hub

This post was consistently too long to post in its entirety and making one comment per square was getting old.
In order to better support the length, I've spun up a GitHub Pages site to host all of the stats: https://smartflutist661.github.io/rfantasy-bingo-stats.
The remainder of this post is an _abbreviated_ version (no plots, no per-square statistics),
but I recommend just going to the page for [this year's stats](https://smartflutist661.github.io/rfantasy-bingo-stats/2022).

# Preliminary Notes

Most of this post, and all of these statistics, were generated by a script I wrote, [available on GitHub](https://github.com/smartflutist661/rfantasy-bingo-stats),
Anyone is welcome to view the enhancements I currently have in mind, request new statistics, or contribute there.
You can find the raw data, corrected data, and some more extensive summary statistics at that link, as well.
See [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12gyb45/cleaning_2022_and_future_bingo_data/) for some technical details.

Format has been shamelessly copied from previous bingo stats posts:
  - [2023](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/1cd0kdk/statistics_for_the_2023_rfantasy_bingo/)
  - [2022](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/12xs3c1/2022_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2021](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/ude8f4/2021_rfantasy_bingo_stats/)
  - [2020](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/npvigf/2020_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2019](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/gjq0ym/2019_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2018](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/bbm35a/2018_rfantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)
  - [2016](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/)

Likewise, the following notes are shamelessly adapted.

1. Stories were not examined for fitness. If you used **1984** for **Novella**, it was included in the statistics for that square.
In addition, if you did something like, say, put **The Lost Metal** as a short story, I made no effort to figure out where it actually belonged.
2. When a series was specified, it was collapsed to the first book. Graphic novels, light novels, manga, and webserials were collapsed from issues to the overall series.
3. Books by multiple authors were counted once for each author.
E.g.: **In the Heart of Darkness** by Eric Flint and David Drake counts as a read for both Eric Flint and David Drake.
*However*, books by a writing team with a single-author pseudonym, e.g. M.A. Carrick, were counted once for the pseudonym, and not for the authors behind the pseudonym.
4. Author demographic statistics are now included below. However, researching all 3430 individual authors
is quite an undertaking, and there is still a reasonable amount of information missing, especially regarding Nationality.
By the time next year's stats roll around I hope to have it reasonably complete.
5. Short stories were excluded from most of the stats below. They *were* included in the total story count.

# And Now: The Stats
    
## Overall Stats

### Squares and Cards

- There were 822 cards submitted, 96 of which were incomplete.
The minimum number of filled squares was 2. 6 were *this close*, with 24 filled squares.
863 squares were left blank, leaving 19687 filled squares.
- There were 20143 total stories, with 5594 unique stories read,
by 3430 unique authors (21236 total).
3434 books and 1833 authors were used only once. 
- The top squares left blank were: **Set in Africa**, blank on 66 cards; **Five Short Stories**, blank on 53 cards; **Self-Published**, blank on 50 cards. On the other hand, **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts** was only left blank 18 times.
- The squares most often substituted were: **Self-Published**, substituted on 32 cards; **Set in Africa**, substituted on 30 cards; **Book Club or Readalong Book**, substituted on 24 cards.
**No Ifs, Ands, or Buts** and **Non-Human Protagonist** were never substituted.
This means that Set in Africa was the least favorite overall, skipped or substituted a total of 96 times, and
No Ifs, Ands, or Buts was the favorite, skipped or substituted only 18 times.
- There were an average of 4.2 unique books per card.
- 152 cards claimed an all-hard-mode card, while 15 cards were short by one square.
4 cards claimed no hard-mode squares at all. The average number of hard-mode squares per card was 14.8.
There were a total of 12196 hard-mode squares claimed.

|SQUARE|% COMPLETE|% HARD MODE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|LGBTQIA List Book|95.9|52.2|
|Weird Ecology|95.5|92.7|
|Two or More Authors|95.5|39.3|
|Historical SFF|95.6|68.4|
|Set In Space|96.9|60.1|
|Stand-alone|97.7|80.6|
|Anti-Hero|97.1|43.3|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|94.9|32.0|
|Cool Weapon|97.3|73.7|
|Revolutions and Rebellions|97.3|69.6|
|Name in the Title|96.2|47.9|
|Author Uses Initials|96.6|47.6|
|Published in 2022|97.2|43.7|
|Urban Fantasy|96.2|51.3|
|Set in Africa|91.7|72.5|
|Non-Human Protagonist|94.9|55.7|
|Wibbly Wobbly Timey Wimey|96.4|59.5|
|Five Short Stories|93.4|79.1|
|Mental Health|94.6|78.4|
|Self-Published|93.7|38.6|
|Award Finalist|94.0|64.2|
|BIPOC Author|95.2|42.3|
|Shapeshifters|95.6|75.4|
|No Ifs, Ands, or Buts|97.8|62.9|
|Family Matters|96.7|58.6|

### Books

The ten most-read books were:

- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, read 278 times
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, read 161 times
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, read 121 times
- **The Cloud Roads** by Martha Wells, read 111 times
- **The Golden Enclaves** by Naomi Novik, read 102 times
- **Nettle & Bone** by T. Kingfisher, read 97 times
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, read 87 times
- ***TIE***: **Project Hail Mary** by Andy Weir and **The Kaiju Preservation Society** by John Scalzi, each read 85 times
- **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke, read 84 times
- **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan, read 83 times

The books used for the most squares were:

- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, used for 12 squares
- ***TIE***: **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells and **Light from Uncommon Stars** by Ryka Aoki, each used for 11 squares
- ***TIE***: **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **Circe** by Madeline Miller and **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree and **Nona the Ninth** by Tamsyn Muir and **Piranesi** by Susanna Clarke and **The Lost Metal** by Brandon Sanderson and **The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches** by Sangu Mandanna and **When Women Were Dragons** by Kelly Barnhill, each used for 10 squares

**The Sandman** by Neil Gaiman was the book read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 11 times for 8 squares.

One of those interesting stats phenomena: even though most cards only include a few unique books, most of the books read are unique.
There were an average of 3.5 reads per book.

### Authors

The ten most-read authors were:

- T. Kingfisher, read 349 times
- Becky Chambers, read 317 times
- Travis Baldree, read 278 times
- Brandon Sanderson, read 271 times
- Martha Wells, read 255 times
- P. Djèlí Clark, read 224 times
- Naomi Novik, read 215 times
- Tamsyn Muir, read 193 times
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, read 177 times
- R.F. Kuang, read 161 times

The authors used for the most squares were:

- Terry Pratchett, used for 22 squares
- Brandon Sanderson, used for 20 squares
- ***TIE***: Adrian Tchaikovsky and V.E. Schwab, each used for 17 squares

Lavie Tidhar was the author read at least 10 times with the highest ratio of squares to times read:
read 10 times for 8 squares.

The authors with the most unique books read were:

- Terry Pratchett, with 38 unique books read
- Brandon Sanderson, with 33 unique books read
- Lois McMaster Bujold, with 27 unique books read
- Adrian Tchaikovsky, with 26 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Jim Butcher and Seanan McGuire, each with 23 unique books read
- Mercedes Lackey, with 22 unique books read
- Neil Gaiman, with 20 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Ilona Andrews and K.J. Parker, each with 19 unique books read
- ***TIE***: C.J. Cherryh and T. Kingfisher, each with 18 unique books read
- ***TIE***: Martha Wells and Will Wight, each with 17 unique books read

As with books, most authors were read only once.
There were an average of 6.2 reads per author.

The following tables represent a best-effort attempt at a statistical breakdown of author demographics.
The "Overall %" column represents the _total_ number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts 271 times for each of his demographic groups.
The "Unique %" column represents the unique number of times a demographic appeared in Bingo data,
i.e. Brandon Sanderson counts only once, no matter how many squares or cards he appears on.

Demographics representing less than 1% of the unique authors are not included in these tables. 

|ETHNICITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Asian|10.4|8.5|
|Black|7.8|4.1|
|Hispanic|1.7|1.1|
|White|57.5|33.2|
|Unknown|20.7|52.7|

|NATIONALITY|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Canada|1.5|1.9|
|United States|7.4|3.6|
|Unknown|87.9|93.0|

|GENDER|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Man|30.8|21.0|
|Nonbinary|4.9|2.9|
|Woman|43.1|23.2|
|Unknown|21.1|52.9|

|QUEER?|% OVERALL|% UNIQUE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|Yes|17.4|9.3|
|Unknown|82.5|90.6|

### Bingos

#### Normal Mode

There were 9023 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 3.2 bingos.
There were 16 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was Fifth Row, incomplete on 82 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Fourth Column, with a total of 219 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was Second Column, incomplete on 58 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was Second Column, with a total of 129 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|75|174|
|Second Row|65|157|
|Third Row|76|190|
|Fourth Row|65|152|
|Fifth Row|82|190|
|First Column|68|167|
|Second Column|58|129|
|Third Column|73|179|
|Fourth Column|81|219|
|Fifth Column|67|169|
|Diagonal|63|151|
|Antidiagonal|68|149|

<INSERT per_card_bingos.png HERE>

#### Hard Mode

There were 2548 complete bingos.
Non-blackout cards completed an average of 1.1 bingos.
There were 443 cards that did not complete any bingos.

The hardest bingo by number of cards was Third Row, incomplete on 646 cards.
The hardest bingo by number of squares was Third Column, with a total of 1963 squares left blank.

The easiest bingo by number of cards was Fourth Row, incomplete on 563 cards.
The easiest bingo by number of squares was Fourth Row, with a total of 1370 squares left blank.

|BINGO TYPE|# CARDS INCOMPLETE|# SQUARES INCOMPLETE|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|First Row|603|1647|
|Second Row|632|1766|
|Third Row|646|1904|
|Fourth Row|563|1370|
|Fifth Row|606|1667|
|First Column|612|1547|
|Second Column|629|1650|
|Third Column|611|1963|
|Fourth Column|612|1568|
|Fifth Column|585|1626|
|Diagonal|618|1846|
|Antidiagonal|599|1648|

<INSERT per_card_hm_bingos.png HERE>

## Variety

The FarraGini index, [introduced in 2017](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/89esvx/2017_fantasy_bingo_statistics/) (see Part III),
attempts to measure the variety of books and authors read for each square.
Each entity's "income" for a square is the number of times it was used for that square,
so the index is analogous to its namesake, the [Gini index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gini_coefficient):

Values close to 0 suggest a square was well-varied; 0 means no book was repeated for a square.
Values close to 100 suggest the same books were used repeatedly for a square; 100 means only one book was used for a square.

|SQUARE|BOOK|AUTHOR|
|---------|:---------:|:---------:|
|LGBTQIA List Book|55.2|53.2|
|Weird Ecology|54.2|63.9|
|Two or More Authors|51.5|58.6|
|Historical SFF|45.9|55.1|
|Set In Space|52.0|61.1|
|Stand-alone|35.5|43.9|
|Anti-Hero|49.7|58.0|
|Book Club or Readalong Book|49.7|49.9|
|Cool Weapon|46.4|58.4|
|Revolutions and Rebellions|46.4|53.7|
|Name in the Title|53.2|58.0|
|Author Uses Initials|52.1|68.5|
|Published in 2022|55.8|56.3|
|Urban Fantasy|43.9|54.0|
|Set in Africa|63.5|71.7|
|Non-Human Protagonist|55.2|62.2|
|Wibbly Wobbly Timey Wimey|46.9|54.3|
|Five Short Stories|37.3|41.3|
|Mental Health|42.4|51.0|
|Self-Published|29.3|38.6|
|Award Finalist|35.3|47.3|
|BIPOC Author|51.1|62.0|
|Shapeshifters|39.8|49.7|
|No Ifs, Ands, or Buts|34.7|42.7|
|Family Matters|35.9|46.7|

The squares with the most variety in books:
- **Self-Published**
- **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts**
- **Award Finalist**

The squares with the most variety in authors:
- **Self-Published**
- **Five Short Stories**
- **No Ifs, Ands, or Buts**

The squares with the least variety in books:
- **Set in Africa**
- **Published in 2022**
- **Non-Human Protagonist**

The squares with the least variety in authors:
- **Set in Africa**
- **Author Uses Initials**
- **Weird Ecology**

<INSERT COMMENTARY HERE>

## Wall of Shame

Quoting the [very first bingo stats post](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fantasy/comments/62sp9h/2016_fantasy_bingo_statistics/),

> You are all terrible spellers.

A "misspelling" for the purposes of these statistics is any book (title/author combination)
that does not match the version used as the canonical version during cleaning.
There were a total of 5827 misspellings.
(Note that this does not include short stories.)

The books with the most variation in title or author spellings were:

- **The Vela** by Yoon Ha Lee, Becky Chambers, Rivers Solomon, S.L. Huang, with 40 variations
- **This is How You Lose the Time War** by Amal El-Mohtar, Max Gladstone, with 26 variations
- **Legends & Lattes** by Travis Baldree, with 24 variations
- **A Master of Djinn** by P. Djèlí Clark, with 22 variations
- **Babel** by R.F. Kuang, with 21 variations
- **The Seven Deaths of Evelyn Hardcastle** by Stuart Turton, with 19 variations
- **The Mask of Mirrors** by M.A. Carrick, with 15 variations
- ***TIE***: **Mother of Learning** by Domagoj Kurmaić and **The Invisible Life of Addie LaRue** by V.E. Schwab, with 14 variations each
- ***TIE***: **Saga** by Brian K. Vaughan, Fiona Staples and **The Fifth Season** by N.K. Jemisin and **The House in the Cerulean Sea** by T.J. Klune, with 13 variations each
- ***TIE***: **A Wizard of Earthsea** by Ursula K. Le Guin and **Monstress** by Marjorie M. Liu, Sana Takeda and **The Bone Ships** by R.J. Barker and **The Long Way to a Small, Angry Planet** by Becky Chambers, with 12 variations each

What makes a book hard to "spell" correctly?

- Length
- Lots of articles or prepositions
- Non-ASCII characters (diacritics, etc.)
- Lots of authors
- Numbers
- Somewhat obviously, books that were published under multiple titles

Predictably, there's a lot of crossover between books with the most variations and the most-read books overall.

## Substitutions

Out of 822 cards, 222 used the Substitution rule.

### Books

- ***TIE***: **A Natural History of Dragons** by Marie Brennan and **The Grief of Stones** by Katherine Addison and **The Priory of the Orange Tree** by Samantha Shannon and **The Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches** by Sangu Mandanna, each read 3 times
- ***TIE***: **A Psalm for the Wild-Built** by Becky Chambers and **All Systems Red** by Martha Wells and **Berserk** by Kentaro Miura and **Dune Messiah** by Frank Herbert and **Hogfather** by Terry Pratchett and **Into the Riverlands** by Nghi Vo and **Red Sister** by Mark Lawrence and **She Who Became the Sun** by Shelley Parker-Chan and **Six Crimson Cranes** by Elizabeth Lim and **The Blacktongue Thief** by Christopher Buehlman and **The Fall of Babel** by Josiah Bancroft and **The Girl and the Stars** by Mark Lawrence and **The Name of the Wind** by Patrick Rothfuss and **The Sandman** by Neil Gaiman, each read 2 times

### Authors

- ***TIE***: Mark Lawrence and Terry Pratchett, each read 5 times
- ***TIE***: Becky Chambers and Marie Brennan, each read 4 times
- ***TIE***: Elizabeth Lim and Katherine Addison and Nghi Vo and Samantha Shannon and Sangu Mandanna and Stephen King, each read 3 times

### Squares

**Cat Squasher 2021**, substituted on 8 cards; **Set in Asia 2021**, substituted on 7 cards; **Comfort Read 2021**, substituted on 6 cards.
